Iraq in the shadows.
As Iraqis vote on a new constitution have the media dropped the ball on this long and bloody war?
Has Iraq been overshadowed by Katrina and Tom DeLay and Harriet Meyers and the Pakistan quake?
A conversation with columnist Tom Friedman.
Was Sixty Minutes unfair to Bill Clinton in airing Louis Freeh's charges against him?
Former Clinton lawyer Lanny Davis in our new Talk Back to the Media segment.
Plus that bogus subway terror alert.
Why did n't television slam on the brakes?
Welcome to Reliable Sources.
I'm Howard Kurtz.
You 're joining us at our new time ten AM eastern seven pacific for a full hour of media analysis every week.
We have some new segments we 'll be adding in the coming week.
so stay tuned.
I had a wide ranging sitdown with Pulitzer Prize winner Tom Friedman.
but first Judy Miller and the New York Times finally go public on the front page this morning with their nearly six thousand word account of the CIA leak investigation.
In a separate first person account Miller confirmed that she told the grand jury that Scooter Libby Dick Cheney's top aide discussed with her as many as three times the role of Valerie Plame as a CIA employee.
This says the Bush administration was angry about her husband Joe Wilson's role in criticizing President Bush on whether Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction.
The conclusion by a team of Times reporters.
The Times incurred millions of dollars in legal fees in Miss Miller's case.
It limited its own ability to cover aspects of one of the biggest scandals of the day.
Even as the paper asked for the public's support it was unable to answer its questions.
Among the journalistic revelations, Miller released from jail last month says she pushed for a story on the outing of Valerie Plame back in two thousand three.
She never wrote one.
but her former boss says no way.
that never happened.
And the Times was so conflicted in covering the controversy the editors killed the story about Libby and pulled their punches in other ways.
And joining us now in Los Angeles Arianna Huffington the syndicated columnist and founder of the blog huffington post dot com.
in Minneapolis Lucy Dalglish executive director of the Reporters ' Committee for Freedom of the Press.
and here in Washington Frank Sesno professor of public policy and communication at George Mason University and a CNN special correspondant.
Frank Sesno has the New York Times belatedly to be sure fought and finally made an honest accounting of its role of Judy Miller's role and the tensions that she created in the newsroom?
Well an honest accounting.
yeah maybe.
but not a full accounting.
You know and if the whole bottom line of this mess is that the public has the right to know and that that's what this is all about the public still does n't know a lot of things.
There's still a lot of questions here.
Why was that waiver that Miller was apparently granted by uh Scooter Libby a year ago-
Why did it wait until she sat in jail for all that time before she actually took up on it?
you know she's referred to in the Times ' own account as Miss Run Amuck.
She was pulled off of certain stories on Iraq's weapons of mass destruction.
What are her motives and bottom lines to the secrecy of this whole thing?
There's a lot we still do n't know.
Miss Run Amuck was a name she gave herself quite proudly apparently.
Arianna Huffington the Times piece a lengthy piece acknowledges that Judy Miller was a controversial figure in the newsroom whose own WMD reporting was wrong and that while she claims to have pushed for this uh story on Valerie Plame two years ago Jill Abrahamson now the paper's managing editor says No way.
That did n't happen.
In other words there's a dispute in the accounts.
Pretty candid stuff for a newspaper to publish about itself would n't you say?
Well as Frank said there are many unanswered questions.
And there are many very devastating eh comments and conclusions about Judy Miller as a journalist.
I do n't think the Times had any choice though Howie. Because remember as a press reporter back on July twenty-seventh the turmoil in the newsroom has been going on for months about Judy Miller and the way the paper has decided to cover the story and the way they decided to present her as a martyr for the first amendment.
And the main unanswered question here is why did Arthur Sulzberger the newspaper's publisher allow Judy Miller to hijack the reporting of that story and the editorial policy on that story.
And the similarities for the Jayson Blair case.
Remember after the Jayson Blair scandal broke we had a seven thousand word story that did not give a full account of what happened. Especially about why is a major institution like the Times ignoring so many red flags.
Alright.
In the story one of things that we learn is that Bill Keller took Judy Miller off her WMD beat as one of his first personnel decisions when he took eh the reins as editor.
Alright.
Well uh I agree there are some unanswered questions.
but I'm willing to give the Times a little more credit than you for at least attempting to answer uh many of the questions.
And Lucy Dalglish here's the thing that jumped out at me in the story.
Judy Miller acknowledges that at Louis Libby's request this is the Dick Cheney aide she agreed to refer to him and in stories not as a senior administration official but as a former Hill aide because he had once worked on Capitol Hill.
Do you have a problem with that sort of thing?
I thought that was a little bit misleading.
And I thought it was odd.
I mean her justification was that well he had been a former Hill staffer.
Um but that was a strange request.
and I think the agreement was strange.
I 'll agree with you on that.
Frank Sesno the Times was so hamstrung by its passionate embrace of this reporter who after all was facing jail did go to jail.
One can understand the emotions uh that were unleashed here.
and yet the editors discouraged stories on the CIA leak investigation and one time killed a piece written by a reporter about Scooter Libby.
Was that an abdication of journalistic responsibility?
Maybe yeah maybe.
I mean what it really shows Howie I think is just how difficult it is for news organizations to report on themselves.
You know news organizations demand total transparency whether you 're General Motors or United States government.
We want access.
We want explanation.
We want full disclosure.
But it's very difficult for them to do it themselves.
In this case and the Times makes it very plain in their story today they really suffered.
They were behind on virtually every major aspect of the story.
Even when she went to jail?
Even when she went to jail and w-.
When she won release from jail.
Yeah at the point that she came out.
They did n't say that you know until she walked out.
And the question and this is a very serious question it's not answered in the article.
Were editorial higher-ups and were the corporate lawyers at the New York Times in some way leaning on suppressing and distorting the coverage from the news uh section?
Arianna Huffington uh in this lengthy piece this morning uh uh Judy Miller is quoted excuse me as saying that there was another source beside Scooter Libby that she dealt with on the Valerie Plame situation.
She does n't recall who that source was looking at her notes and seeing the uh notation Valerie Flame.
She got the name wrong.
Do you buy this notion that she does n't recall who this other source was?
No of course not Howie.
In fact I think this is the major unanswered question.
We do n't know who eh her source was when it comes to revealing the identity of Valerie Plame.
And to say that she does not recall is really as convincing as having Woodward and Bernstein saying that they do not recall who Deep Throat was.
After all these notes were just a few weeks old when um the Valerie Plame Bob Novak column appeared and when the whole Washington and the whole journalistic community was talking about it.
You know I do n't-
Incidentally there was some questions uh that Judy Miller would not answer to her colleagues.
and she would n't share her notes with them although they 've been turned over to the special prosecutor.
Lucy Dalglish the big news for me was Miller recounting what her lawyer Floyd Abrams had said to her about a conversation that he had with Joe Tate who was Scooter Libby's lawyer.
Uh says um Floyd Abrams according to Miller's account when I would n't give him Tate an assurance that you would exonerate Libby he said do n't go there.
Now Tate by the way tells the Times that that account is false and outrageous.
Does this help justify eh Judy Miller's otherwise mysterious decision to go to jail and not accept the waiver of confidentiality that Scooter Libby offered and sit in jail for eighty-five days?
N-you n-.
you know I 've been talking to Judy off and on about this case for the last year.
This was a very difficult decision.
and you know what this all comes down to is you keep your promises when you make a promise to a confidential source.
You 'll recall six or eight months ago Howie I was on the show and we were talking about you know did Russert and Kessler and all the rest of those guys did they break some trust by agreeing to testify and observing the waiver?
What I think this situation and the turmoil that is obviously going on at the Times right now points out is the fact that we have a major problem in this country.
it's that reporters believe they need to keep their promises to their sources.
Reporters will try to do whatever they can as long as the law allows them to protect those sources.
Right.
But these days um with the state of our law the fact that we do not have a federal shield law we have prosecutors and civil litigants going in there and interfering with the day to day operation of our newsrooms.
and we just can tolerate this.
And we 're trying to-
I think Lucy's on to something here if I can just say Howie.
And I think this is very important because this is an ugly case.
And even people close to Judith Miller say this is not the one you 'd really like to go to the mat on.
You 'd love to have a clear whistle blower case.
You 'd love to have a Pentagon papers case.
You 'd love to have something where the well-being and the sanctity of the Republic you know hangs in the balance.
She did n't even report on this.
But it does point out a very serious issue.
And that is the whole notion of the use of and abuse of confidential sources the protections that reporters do or do n't have and the propensity of uh the United States government to have more secrecy not less.
We 've got to figure this out.
Well just to clarify uh she did ultimately uh testify about her confidential source.
The whole issue was how voluntary was the waiver of her promise to Scooter Libby offered and why was she able to accept after being in jail as opposed to before being in jail.
Well exactly.
and you know what Howie..
it's really time for Lucy and other Judy Miller defenders to update her talking points because what Lucy just said just simply does not wash.
The truth is that as Howie said she did testify.
The truth is that it's very clear from the stories today that she could 've asked uh Scooter Libby to call her so that she could hear the timber of his voice earlier.
All of that could have happened.
It did not happen because clearly Judy Miller is protecting another source that she still has not revealed to the American public.
And the New York Times is.
Lucy.
.
Let me get a response from Lucy Dalglish.
I think it's very obvious from what Judy wrote today she is protecting somebody else.
And one of the reasons that this negotiation took so long is that not only was she negotiating what she was going to say about Scooter Libby but you got to keep in mind I'm a lawyer there were lawyers involved in this.
They had to negotiate with Patrick Fitzgerald what he would not talk about.
They also had to negotiate whether or not there would be any type of um uh uh obstruction charges connected with contacting.
Once you invoke the wrath or the extreme interest of a federal prosecutor you have to be very very careful.
You do n't mess with the Feds.
It's very clear in her story that she decided finally to testify because she got tired of jail because she was threatened with criminal contempt charges because she wanted to go out and now she's saying admitting finally write a book.
All these things are there in black and white.
and to continue to portray her as a martyr is not going to work.
And on that point Arianna on that point she says sh--
Excuse me.
Judy Miller says she's taking some time off from the paper.
She wants to write a book.
She would n't share her notes with her colleagues who were writing the story.
Do you think she 'll ever come back?
You think she's saving it for the book?
Well it's very clear that she would not be welcome in the newsroom.
And it's very clear eh as I reported again that when Bill Keller took her off her WMD beat they were all hoping she would resign.
Instead she threw a fit.
but she stayed on.
This is not a journalism one oh one course the way she handled both the WMD reporting and Plame Gate.
Frank Sesno please comment.
Jump in.
And Howie I 'll tell you what.
This is a gigantic shot across the bow of every manager in the news business and every editor and every executive producer anywhere because you got to have some uh control some connection with your correspondants and your reporters.
You got to know who they 're talking to at some level anyway because you know what?
It's about trust with the public.
and it's about you know ending up in jail or in court.
their story says that Bill Keller and Arthur Sulzberger did not press Judy Miller about her conversations with Libby or ask to see her notes while they were defending her.
Ask to see her.
And by the way we invited the New York Times to have an editor appear on this program.
The paper declined.
When we come back media speculation run amuck over possible indictments at sixteen hundred Pennsylvania and the President's scripted session with troops in Iraq.
Stay with us.
Welcome back to Reliable Sources.
As the CIA leak investigation continued this week media folks did plenty of speculating with no evidence about the possible indictment of a certain top White House official who testified before the grand jury for the fourth time on Friday.
Karl Rove his closest aide the number two man in the White House the man that has been called Bush's brain.
If he's indicted and has to go it undermines the key source of this President's public support his character.
If Rove gets indicted that could bring down the Bush administration I think.
My understanding from talking to somebody quite close to this investigation is that they think there are going to be indictments.
and possibly Karl Rove could be among them.
Lucy Dalglish if Karl Rove is indicted, if Karl Rove is indicted, what if he's not indicted?
Is n't this the worst kind of journalistic speculation?
Yeah.
You know I think it's always dangerous to speculate whether or not you 're really besmirching someone's reputation. Although I'm not sure you can do that with Karl Rove.
But it uh is very very you know eh irre--
I would prefer that people keep an eye on you know watching him testify and going in and out of the courthouse.
But uh will it bring down the administration?
I do n't know.
Ah eh I do n't know.
Well nobody knows.
That's the point.
Arianna Huffington I used to cover the justice department.
Not everybody who's under investigation winds up getting indicted.
Ah but you certainly and you 're uh on a blog so maybe it's a different standard have speculated about Rove's fate as well.
Well not just Rove though.
what we have speculated is that it might be a much more tangled web that Fitzgerald is after the whole Iraq White House group the group that uh in Cheney's office with Libby and Rove and Mary Matalin and Condoleezza Rice and a lot of administration officials basically sold um a war to the American public based on lies.
I mean that is really the web.
But it seems and we find out today also from uh um the reporting on the Miller story, that uh Fitzgerald is after Cheney even in some of the questioning eh of Miller.
I think those were fairly routine questions about.
you have Judy Miller there.
you ask about Cheney..
He was being thorough.
I think we 're overthinking this whole thing.
Karl Rove and this speculation business you know.
Frank Sesno.
Pat Fitzgerald.
It's very easy to sit here and say oh we should never speculate in journalism.
It's irresponsible journalism.
It's really how you speculate not that you speculate.
The fact of the matter is that Karl Rove has been to the grand jury four times.
The fact of the matter is that there are lots of people in Washington and believe me they 're not all journalists who are speculating what if the guy gets indicted.
It would be irresponsible I think for the media not to reflect what the discussion is here in town.
And there are plenty of Republicans mostly Republicans who are worried about this.
Alright I want to turn now to uh President Bush's uh meeting uh uh photo op some called it with US troops in Iraq whether it was staged how shocking that would be.
Let's take a look at the actual footage.
And in your interactions with the Iraqi civilians in Tikrit Saddam's hometown how are they reacting to this political process?
Sir in the north central area of Iraq voter registration has increased seventeen percent.
Can you give us a sense for the reception of the people there in Tikrit?
Sir in north central Iraq voter regis--
Are you stunned?
Are you stunned?
Shocked.
I ca n't believe it.
they rehearsed it.
They rehearsed it.
They rehearsed it.
Yeah you know something?
uh I remember a long time ago Michael Deaver the ultimate image meister for Ronald Reagan said my job is to light the President well and for everything I do to put the President in a good light.
Now look first of all this is uncomfortable to see.
and what the problem this now creates for the White House is {is} it plays into the credibility issue that the President has that everything now is becoming a photo op and a rehearsed event in order to rescue what are tumbling numbers on his performance on public support of Iraq the whole bit.
But the fact that anybody would think that you would do something like this a remote.
I mean anybody in television will tell you that's complicated business.
You have satellite delay.
You have a half a dozen people sitting there.
Who's going to speak when.
You do n't want awkward silences.
You 're going to walk through it.
so that it happened does n't surprise me.
That it hurts the President yeah that's inevitable too.
Arianna Huffington does the staging here surprise you at all?
Well it's not the question of surpising me Howie.
It's the fact that we are talking about war.
This is not just any photo opportunity.
Of course that's part and parcel of the presidency.
But we 're talking about a war in which almost two thousand young Americans have died.
And we are also using soldiers as props.
Yes it is shocking.
and I think Keith Olbermann did a phenomenal job at exposing this on MSNBC.
Alright.
And I think more and more journalists are actually taking a hard look at what this administration is doing.
And we 'll have to leave it there.
Last word.
Arianna Huffington Lucy Dalglish in Minneapolis Frank Sesno thanks so very much for joining us.
Coming up, we launch our new segment Talk Back to the Media.
President Clinton's former lawyer Lanny Davis takes on Sixty Minutes and ex-FBI director Louis Freeh.
And still to come New York Times columnist Tom Friedman.
Welcome back.
In our new Talk Back to the Media segment someone who believes he or she's been treated unfairly by the press gets the chance to sound off and give their side of the controversy.
Last Sunday Mike Wallace sat down with Louis Freeh who's peddling a memoir on Sixty Minutes.
and the former FBI director unloaded on the President who appointed him Bill Clinton.
Among his criticisms the former president's handling of the nineteen ninety-six Khobar Towers terrorist bombing that killed nineteen US marines in Saudi Arabia.
I was very disappointed that the political leadership of the United States uh would tell the families of these nineteen heroes that we were going to leave no stone unturned and find the people who killed them.
to give that order to the director because that's the order that I got and then to do nothing to assist and facilitate that investigation in fact to undermine it.
The Clinton people were furious at the way Sixty Minutes hailed the segment.
and here to talk back is former Clinton White House attorney Lanny Davis.
Welcome.
Let's deal with the substance first.
Louis Freeh says that when Clinton met with Crown Prince Abdullah in nineteen ninety-eight, he did n't press for FBI access to suspects in the Khobar Towers bombing and he hit up the prince for a contribution to his presidential library.
Well not only is that false and President Clinton has said so but everybody who attended the meeting not including Louis Freeh says it's false.
And my problem with Sixty Minutes is that they never called anybody at the meeting.
Until Friday afternoon we did n't even know the charge was being made.
And even then they were unwilling to put somebody on the air to contradict Mister Freeh.
Sixty Minutes says Bill Clinton was offered a chance to come on and give his rebuttal.
What's wrong with that?
Well first of all it's absolutely amazing that Sixty Minutes thinks it's okay to air a false and malicious statement.
This is a terrible charge that an FBI investigation was thwarted because President Clinton wanted to receive money for his library.
The charge was false.
and the only way that that can be countered is a former president of the United States?
What about anybody at the meeting who was willing to be on?
What about them doing reporting themselves before they air a false and demonstrably false charge?
That's my problem.
What about Sandy Berger the former national security advisor under President Clinton?
He was at the meeting.
He was in the room.
Did you offer him for an on-camera interview?
Well on Friday afternoon.
You were n't there.
I was not there.
You 're good on television.
but you were n't there.
uh I talked to Sandy Berger.
We issued a statement from Mister Berger.
but this was Friday afternoon when we first learned about it with Sunday broadcast.
Why did n't Sixty Minutes invite Mister Berger or other people at the meeting before Friday afternoon?
Why did it take us to get Sixty Minutes to do basic reporting to verify facts?
It's not enough to have Louis Freeh say something is so based on an anonymous source.
That's poor journalism.
On that point let me read a statement from a Sixty Minutes spokesman.
And this involves uh their saying that they contacted Clinton's office back in August with a detailed list of charges and then quote in subsequent phone calls the President's people said he did not want to be interviewed.
They gave no +substantive response to any of the allegations until Lanny Davis launched his PR campaign on the Thursday before the broadcast and offered himself as the person from the camp who would merely disparage and attack Freeh rather than deal with his allegations.
Denials from President Clinton and Sandy Berger that did deal with Freeh's allegations were included in the Sixty Minutes report.
Well first of all it's false to say that I was asking to disparage Freeh.
I was asking to talk about facts that Freeh was saying that were not true.
You do n't mind disparaging Freeh.
my observation.
no in fact I disparage any man who as FBI director has a personal pique rather than doing his job.
That's disparaging.
Secondly it is absolutely a misrepresentation that they told us before just the week before.
When Mister Carson the representative spoke to Mister Wallace Mister Wallace agreed that they had never verified what Mister uh Freeh had said.
They never talked to Mister Freeh.
and in fact it was n't until that Friday that we learned the substance of Mister Freeh's charges.
So Sixty Minutes I think has just said something that is false.
When did the Clinton team find out that Sixty Minutes was going to report that Louis Freeh with his new book was going to have a specific allegation about Clinton's handling of the Khobar Towers investigation and the business about the presidential library solicitation.
When somebody named Howard Kurtz wrote a story in the Washington Post on Friday morning is the first time that the Clinton forces learned about that false and demonstrably false charge that good reporting by calling people who were at the meeting could have done would have verified that Mister Freeh made a false charge.
And even since that interview Mister Freeh has backed off and has not told people who his source is.
and he has n't even insisted that it was true.
He just said somebody told him it was true.
Hold on.
Sixty Minutes spokesman Kevin Tedesco said in the statement I just referred to that the Clinton office was contacted in August with a detailed list of charges.
That's false.
Are you saying that's false?
They were never told..
or at least I'm now basing this on what Mister Carson has told me.
Jay Carson is the spokesman for former president Bill Clinton.
Jay Carson is the spokesperson for President Clinton was not informed about the specific charge about the Khobar Towers which happens to be not true.
President Clinton at that uh meeting did press the uh Crown Prince to cooperate with the FBI.
so what Mister Freeh said was false.
That was not understood by the Clinton people until it was read in the Washington Post in the story that you wrote because Sixty Minutes put a press release out.
Uh now look Lanny Davis Sixty Minutes gave Bill Clinton one hour last year to push his own ten million dollar autobiography.
He criticized people.
He criticized Ken Starr.
They did n't have Ken Starr on to rebut.
Now the former director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation uh who ca n't stand Clinton clearly writes a book gets one segment for his book.
and you cry foul.
Nobody was complaining about when Bill Clinton was getting all this airtime on CBS.
Look.
Look this is a program about good journalism.
Let's ask a Sixty Minutes uh journalist to say do you have an obligation to verify a charge made by the former FBI director as whether it's true or not.
Is it good enough to air it just because he says it.
or should you do reporting?
Good reporters would hear that charge and say that is an extremely serious charge to be levelled against former president Clinton.
Let's see whether it's true and start making phone calls.
They did not do that.
That's a fact.
Alright Lanny Davis thanks very much for coming on to Talk Back to the Media this morning.
We appreciate it.
Ahead in the second half of Reliable Sources New York Times columnist Tom Friedman on whether the media are suffering from Iraq fatigue.
Plus that heavily hyped subway threat that was n't.
After an update on the hour's top stories from Atlanta.
Hello I'm at the CNN center in Atlanta.
Now in the news.
Earthquake relief flights have resumed in Pakistan.
That's after torrential rain stopped flights for hours there.
And a Pakistani helicopter crashed killing six soldiers.
A magnitude seven point six earthquake struck last weekend as you recall.
Pakistan's prime minister says it killed at least thirty-eight thousand people and left about two and a half million homeless.
Toledo Ohio is quiet this morning after a planned march by a self-styled nazi group sparked a riot yesterday.
The Associated Press says police arrested at least sixty-five people.
The march never got started.
but hundreds of counter-demonstrators showed up and battled police on and off for more than three hours.
Police say the protestors vandalized vehicles and buildings setting at least one structure on fire.
Look at this.
a semi-truck and a bus carrying high school band members collided overnight on interstate ninety-four and in Wisconsin.
The Associated Press quotes the Wisconsin state patrol as saying at least five people were killed.
The students were from Chippewa Falls Wisconsin.
They were returning from a band competition at the University of Wisconsin in Whitewater.
Those are the headlines this morning.
I'm in Atlanta.
We have another news update coming up in just thirty minutes.
More of CNN's Reliable Sources continues right now.
Welcome back to the second half of Reliable Sources.
Our new time for those of you just turning in is ten AM eastern seven on the west coast.
And we 'll be bringing you a full hour of media interviews and analysis each week.
The Iraq story which the media has placed on the back burner in recent months is simmering again as voters in that war torn country went to the polls yesterday to vote on a new constitution with the results yet to be counted.
But are journalists getting the real story there?
To help us scrutinize the coverage I sat down with a foreign affairs columnist of the New York Times three time Pulitzer winner Tom Friedman and the author most recently of The World is Flat.
Tom Friedman welcome.
Good to be here Howie.
thank you.
The other day you wrote that if you were the editor of the New York Times you would 've led the paper with the news of recent days that a Sunni suicide bomber on Ramadan had attacked a Shiite mosque.
Now in reality the world that you do n't rule New York Times Washington Post made that part of a larger story on Iraq.
Uh nobody put it on the front page.
Bad news judgement?
Uh I think so Howie.
I'm not here to make a news point though.
I'm really making a larger point which is about the war on terrorism.
I'm a firm believer.
How we ever going to win this war?
We 're never going to win it by way of American intelligence finding this terrorist or that terrorist.
We get lucky every once in a while.
but there's only {one?} way we win this war Howie is it takes a village.
It only happens when the Sunni Muslim world basically turns people in and when the Sunni Muslim world restrains their own.
And what was so shocking to me about this story a Sunni Jihadi suicide bomber blows up a mosque number one on the first day of Ramadan.
What that tells you is that there's no controlling moral authority today in the Sunni Muslim world.
Well what is the bigger story?
And that is a huge story.
I think it should have been a big story.
Why was n't-
Is it because of Iraq fatigue?
Um.
I think it is yeah.
Think it's-
Are all the editors and producers and new executives feeling another day another bombing ten killed twenty killed fifteen killed.
and it does n't rise anymore to the top of the newscast or the front page?
Right.
Yeah and I think that's right.
There is Iraq fatigue.
And there's so much fatigue that we do n't sit back and say wait a minute.
what happened today?
A Sunni Muslim fundamentalist went into a mosque on the first day of Ramadan their holiest day.
and no one says boo.
this is civilization that when we accidentally or deliberately I do n't know abused the Koran people rioted in Pakistan.
Yet their own houses of worship and holidays are being defiled.
And I think it is a measure of how much we 've kind of lost been numbed by all of this that we do n't sit back and say wow wait a minute.
that really crosses the line.
and we have to call them on it even if they do n't.
You 're recently back from Iraq.
and you write about driving in from Kuwait.
You were guarded by the US navy.
and yet it was kind of a harrowing experience.
Why so?
Um you know the south of Iraq which is where I was the area around.
This is the safe part.
Right exactly.
I was in the safe district.
I was guarded uh by the British Royal Marines actually because unfortunately they 've had now um uh roadside bombs down there not suicide bombs.
And it's part of the general continuing insecurity of Iraq that um I'm afraid has plagued this story from the very beginning.
And it's been I 've always felt the Achille's heel.
You know my criticism of the Bush administration as you know we 've talked about this before is not that this war is not important.
I believe it is important much more important than I think the left has ever fully recognized.
But it's so much harder than the right has ever been willing to acknowledge.
And on that trip you put on body armor.
their rifles were out.
Yeah.
Um how does that affect your perception as a journalist?
You 're there.
you 're being protected.
and you must have been a little bit nervous of what the safety situation is in there.
Well I 'll tell you what's really frustrating from a journalist's point of view as one who have lived in Beirut for nearly five years covered that war.
When I worked in Lebanon you could go anywhere on that story.
You could cross lines.
Journalists worked for the most part until the very end with Terry Anderson the kidnappings targets.
Therefore by the end of the Lebanon story I thought the best journalists there knew more than the Lebanese.
I always thought the best compliment you could get as a journalist is when you told the Lebanese something they did n't know because you were moving around so much.
What's so frustrating about the Iraq story Howie no one has a bird's eye view.
I care passionately about this story.
I'm so interested in it.
but because of the securtiy situation you ca n't move around with the freedom you want.
And the brave reporters who are there every day do n't have that freedom of movement either.
And therefore it's limited.
and in fact as you know the administration says because of the security situation and maybe because of some biases in the media.
There's a lot of good things going on in Iraq.
There's a lot of progress being made we 're not seeing reported by the press.
Do you think that is a credible argument at this point in the mess there?
No because I do n't have a bird's eye view.
I wish I could say.
I wish I could be so sure.
but General Casey does n't have a bird's eye view.
And that's why we get surprises in Iraq.
Uh that's why we had an election where eight million people suddenly turn out.
and maybe you know we 're going to see more surpises in the coming future there.
But because no one can move around with the freedom that you need to talk to everyone you do n't have that bird's eye view.
And as a reporter as a columnist who really cares about this story I find that really frustra--
I can not report it the way I 'd love to.
So I 've been there five times.
but it's episodic.
It's here.
It's there.
It's never really putting your arms around the story.
pulling back the camera a bit in recent months you 'd have to say that the Iraq story has been overshadowed by Katrina by Rita by Tom DeLay by Harriet Miers by Valerie Plame and now by this Pakistan earthquake.
Um inevitable with a war that drags on and on.
and these are all also important stories obviously.
but uh do you feel it's getting the attention that it should?
Yeah.
No because to me this is the whole ballgame of the Bush administration.
Katrina and Rita they 'll come and go.
but at the end of the day the Bush administration made a very big claim um that it could go to Iraq um and produce a decent forward looking government there.
If that happens then I think President Bush is going to have a very huge quiver you know in his uh legacy there.
Um if it does n't happen I think uh the administration will be seen as a complete and utter failure.
so everything rides on this not just for the administration though but for the American people.
These are huge stakes involved.
And so I do n't think it's gotten the attention it's deserved.
And going back again to one of your Iraq collumns uh you observed the Iraqi military there which after all is supposed to be increasingly shouldering the burden of this conflict.
The slightly ragged quality left you feeling you write that if you pulled the US and British advisors out tomorrow the whole Iraqi navy would collapse.
That's a pretty pessimistic assessment and clearly at odds with what the White House and the Defense Department say every day.
.
Not at odds though with what actually the military commanders have been saying which is that the number of really trained Iraqi units you know are far fewer than sometimes suggested by the administration.
So you 're saying there's a gap between what real time military commanders on the ground are willing to tell you not necessarily on the record.
You quoted one US senior official and what the President of the United States and the Vice President and the Secretary of Defense are saying to reporters every day.
Are we calling them on that?
Right I do n't think enough because there's been a lot of happy talk around this Howie basically.
And a lot of numbers are thrown out.
Eighty thousand this week we 've got trained a hundred and twenty thousand next week.
Here's what you learn when you go to Iraq.
Where you have an Iraqi commander who's a real leader of soldiers okay you have a unit.
And where you do n't have that commander you do n't have a unit.
So the numbers the macro numbers do n't mean anything.
So I went down to see the navy there.
The navy of Iraq has a terrific commander.
so the people around him they 'll follow him into battle.
But you take that one guy out there's no Iraqi navy.
and it's true of units all over the country.
That's really the key.
You say that you are angry uh that Bush has fought the war as though it would be easy.
Are you particularly angry as somebody who supported the war and took heat from some of your liberal friends for doing so?
Yes.
Absolutely because I believe this is important.
I believe that something very big is at stake.
We 're dealing with a Muslim Arab civilization right now that's that's in decline, that's heading in the wrong direction in ways that are dangerous for them and I believe dangerous for the stability of the world.
There's something really important here at stake.
and what makes me so angry at the Bush administration is not that they did n't frame the stakes.
It is important.
But they never never appreciated how difficult it was.
They never prepared the army or the American people for how difficult it was.
I mentioned the uh devastating earthquake in Pakistan a region you 're familiar with.
Um clearly it's become a pretty big story.
but for the first couple days I noticed it was n't that much of a television story.
and the reason was no pictures no video.
No yes.
Um but also maybe there was there a little bit less coverage because it's in a remote part of the world?
Uh Westerners are more interested in New Orleans than in Pakistan?
I think all of the above.
We 're so numbed also after Katrina and Rita.
and now another earthquake.
.
It's just become uh one natural disaster after another.
to hear ten thousand twenty thousand forty thousand then it's almost hard for a journalist to process.
Right.
And it was remote.
and people are exhausted I think both viewers and reporters.
Ahead have New York Times columnists been asked not to write about Judy Miller?
More of my interview with Tom Friedman next.
Welcome back to Reliable Sources now a full hour each week here in our new time slot ten to eleven o'clock eastern.
More now of my conversation with New York Times columnist Tom Friedman about his book the new online charge to read him and Judy Miller.
Now your new book The World is Flat I 've got it here.
uh monster best seller more than a million copies better than any book you 've ever written before.
Um you were recently profiled about this in Fortune magazine.
and uh let's just say that it did n't say you walked on water but it came close.
Uh but one of the criticisms-
What's wrong with that?
It says that you 're the composer of the nation's talking points which was news to me.
Uh one of the things it said was that uh in your book and in your writing that CEOs play a very central role.
And the suggestion was well CEOs love you, you 're asked to speak at all these corporate events, maybe because you give them a very large uh share of the narrative.
Yeah.
Mhm.
Mhm.
That a reasonable observation?
Yeah it is a reasonable observation.
And my reaction to that is look if I want to understand the underlying technology that is flattening the world who do I go to?
do I go to I do n't know Central America?
Do I go to um uh the factory floor?
Or do I go to the innovators and entrepeneurs who actually put all this together?
So I make no apology for that at all.
Um fact I would make a criticism of it.
There are n't enough people during the last few years who actually went out and talked to the innovators who are doing all of these things who are actually reshaping the world.
Just the opposite.
We kind of had an Enron effect.
and Enron effect was all CEOs are guilty unless proven innocent, therefore who wants to talk to them?
And therefore I would argue--.
Wait a second.
wait a second.
Journalists uh subscribe to stereotypes because there are a few crooks at major corporations because you know they 're all bad guys?
Yeah yeah.
Yeah I would say.
uh that's a harsh uh assessment.
I would say that there's several things happened basically in the last three years.
I would call it a perfect storm.
One was nine eleven.
That distracted us okay.
The other was the Enron effect.
You know no one wanted to be sort of seen with CEOs.
And number three was the dot com bust which made everyone think well all this globalization technology stuff is really over.
And as a result I would argue that really masked what is actually a fundemental inflection point the flattening of the world that we 're going from a vertical value creation model of command and control to a much more horizontal one of connect and collaborate.
The argument of this book is that that shift is actually going to have as big an effect over time as Gutenberg and the printing press.
And I would argue a little bit that it got missed because of all these other distractions.
But it's only had an effect on Tom Friedman's career.
In fact you were the Playboy interview.
Hey put that paper down.
.
I bought it for the articles.
Uh I enjoyed the interview.
and you said in there that your wife uh edits all your columns and she says do n't publish it.
Yes she does.
You go back and rewrite it.
I'm afraid I do.
.
My wife Andrea edits them all.
and when she gives me thumbs down Howie I have to put it in a ball throw it in the circular file and start over.
and she's a tough editor.
Now your international readership on the New York Times website has gone down because of this new experiment the Times has where it costs forty nine ninety-five a year for non-subscribers at home to read Times columnists.
That's got to be disappointing for you.
You know um I'm torn.
Uh and I 've said this to my bosses.
Um I want my paper to thrive.
and if we have a situation where young people grow up in the world that thinks that newspapers are things you read for free online who's going to pay my travel expenses?
And at the same time one of the greatest things about New York Times online is I got to reach an audience that just was exponential to what you got in the dead tree edition of the New York Times.
And because I write about international affairs so I got a lot of young people in India and Egypt and whatnot.
and for them fifty dollars that may be their tuition for half a year.
So I'm honestly torn.
I really hope this works because I want the New York Times to have a platform that is sustainable.
But at the same time I hope we can eventually find a way to re-engage those people because definitely we 've lost some of them.
Eh in the Valerie Plame leak investigation there's an allegation bouncing around the blogosphere that I just thought I would address with you which is have New York Times columnists somehow been told not to write about this because of Judy Miller's involvement and being in jail, now being out of jail.
absolutely not.
Anybody tell you not to write about it?
I mean they do n't tell me not to write about anything.
Howie we are home alone okay.
I mean I'm going to China uh on Monday.
and there's only one person knows I'm going.
and that's my assistant.
So um-
Did you even tell the boss?
That's right. so there's no edict out there.
why people have n't written about it I do n't know.
I'm focused on other things.
There's a lot we do n't know obviously about the Judith Miller situation.
but why do you think that she has gotten so much criticism?
After all whether you agree with her or not this is a woman who believed in her convictions and went off to jail for eighty-five days.
Um you know um Judy's always been a pioneer and an agent of change you know um and uh has been at the forefront of a lot of stories.
and people like that in our business um uh engender a lot of attention a lot of criticism and a lot of jealousy.
Um and uh that's the only way I can really explain.
Tom Friedman.
Up next did the media get carried away with last week's subway terror alert?
We 'll ride the rails into the spin cycle next.
When New York mayor Mike Bloomberg announced last week that there was a possible terror threat against the city's subways I thought here we go again.
And television was all over the story.
Here in New York tonight officials say they are increasing security on the city's massive subway system because of what they call a significant and credible threat.
The threat to attack the subways in coming days comes from overseas.
and the police here will be searching bags briefcases even baby strollers to try to stop it.
It was let's face it irresistable.
And since it was right there in the Big Apple cable anchors and correspondents could provide almost non-stop on the scene coverage.
The threat concerns the New York City subway system behind me around me literally beneath our feet here in Times Square.
The Fox News alert New York City subways are on a heightened state of alert this evening after what officials are describing as a specific threat.
And the city's tabloids were n't far behind.
The problem as with so many previous terror alerts is that allegations from informants are inherently shaky.
And some correspondents offered caveats of course.
MSNBC anchor Keith Olbermann could n't help but notice on that day October six it was news that Karl Rove had been called back to testify in the CIA leak case and the white house is being assailed by conservatives over the Harriet Miers nomination.
events that have been politically disadvantageous to the current administration have been uh occuring simultaneously or followed quickly upon with something related to terrorism on a big scale.
By the next morning the New York Times and the Washington Post were reporting that federal authorities were playing down the threat as noncredible.
But the TV coverage kept rolling down the track like the number four express.
Finally last Tuesday some newspapers and then the cable networks reported that the whole thing was a hoax.
The CBS evening news gave that three sentences.
Well Jim Stewart of our Washington bureau quotes government sources tonight as saying the Iraqi man who gave that tip to US intelligence agents in Iraq now says the information was simply not true.
But that's a lot more than NBC Nightly News and ABC's World News Tonight which did n't mention the great subway hoax at all.
In an age of terror such threats obviously need to be reported.
but given the unreliability of intelligence television ought to learn a lesson here about not going on high alert and scaring people.
When we come back one network up the river without an explanation.
Reporters are tired of the usual standups you know Howard Kurtz Oshkosh Wisconsin.
They want to be riding on a train or walking in the rain or something to get attention.
So when NBC's Michelle Kosinski was covering some flooding in New Jersey for the Today Show Friday she set out in a canoe.
And everything was going smoothly until-
Well take a look.
Good morning.
Well obviously we 're getting a nice break from the rain but not the flooding.
This is essentially now a part of the Passaic River in this neighborhood.
Two guys walk into the shot.
and we see that the water is only maybe four inches deep.
Talk about shallow reporting.
And as the Media Research Center pointed out this was right before the Today Show accused President Bush of staging his conversation with soldiers in Iraq.
Well that's it for this edition of Reliable Sources.
Join us again next Sunday at our new time ten o'clock eastern seven pacific for a full hour of critiquing the media.
Late Edition with Wolf Blitzer begins right now.
This is Late Edition the last word in Sunday talk.
All the indications we are getting even.