For democracy in the middle east.
We 'll ask Lebanon's president Emile Lahoud about his hopes for the future of the region.
Live from CNN in Washington this is Late Edition with Wolf Blitzer.
It's noon in Washington nine am in Los Angelas seven pm in Bayreuth and eight pm in Baghdad.
Wherever you 're watching from around the world thanks very much for joining us for Late Edition.
We 'll get to our interview with general Abizaid in just a moment.
and later we 'll also get the views of senator Edward Kennedy.
but first a quick check of what's in the news right now.
Thanks Wolf.
I'm Patricia Whitfield at the CNN center in Atlanta.
Here are the headlines.
The US death toll in Iraq has climbed.
An American soldier was killed today in a road side bombing in Baghdad.
Two others were wounded.
The US military death toll in Iraq now stands at one thousand seven hundred thirty four.
In northern Iraq four suicide bombings over eighteen hours rocked the city of.
At least nineteen deaths and dozens of injuries reported there.
Many of the victims were Iraqi police officers.
Experience the power of CNN video on your computer.
Log onto CNN dot com click on the video link and browse for the video you want to see.
Watch what you want whenever you want free at CNN dot com.
And those are the headlines.
I'm Patricia Whitfield at the CNN center in Atlanta.
Now back to Wolf.
Thanks very much Frederica.
Tuesday President Bush is set to deliver a prime time televised address to the nation to try to explain US policy in Iraq.
Polls show support for that policy down dramatically here in the United States.
Just a short while ago I spoke with the commander of the US military central command General John Abizaid about the challenges of battling a relentless insurgency in Iraq and a lot more.
General Abizaid thanks for joining us.
welcome to late edition.
Pleasure to be here.
More suicide bombings and dozens of individuals killed.
Once again people watching what's going on in Iraq have to ask is there an end to this?
Clearly there is an end to this.
the end comes when Iraqi security forces and Iraqi governance come together in such a way that they 're able to dominate the insurgency.
the end comes when the insurgency clearly understands and recognizes that they ca n't achieve any progress, the only thing they can achieve is killing innocent people.
And so I am very uh clear in my understanding that we 're moving in a good direction as long as politics moves forward and Iraqi security forces moves forward.
But I'm also very realistic in understanding that there's a lot of violence ahead especially as we move through the political process and the insurgence will try to challenge the government and the Iraqi security forces and American forces in an effort to break our will and they do this by grabbing headlines.
So what I hear you saying is that the United States military alone ca n't crush this insurgency.
I did n't say the United States military alone ca n't crush this insurgency.
I wanted to make clear that crushing the insurgency has to do with a combination of politics economics military activity and diplomatic activity.
Would it make any difference uh let me rephrase the question if the US had another hundred thousand troops in Iraq?
what we have to do is have the right number of troops in Iraq.
We have the right number of troops in Iraq.
We have to build Iraqi security forces so they are capable of taking the lead in the counter-insurgency operation.
The strategy really is pretty simple.
and it's pretty elegant.
and general Casey has done a great job in developing it.
We develop Iraqi security forces.
we continue to give them experience.
we connect the chain of command.
we build good leadership.
and over time they take the lead in the counter-insurgency fight.
The insurgents ca n't beat us.
we are very strong militarily.
there seems to be some notion out there that we 're going to be pushed into the sea.
That's not going to be anything even close to what you might see.
But I assume they think that if they keep this drum beat this deadly series of suicide bombings IED's improvised explosive devices, if they just keep killing a lot of individuals Americans and Iraqis, eventually the American public will get fed up and the US will pull out.
Look.
there's only one way for the insurgents to win.
that's to drive us out before the Iraqis are ready to assume the battle space.
If that's what happens they could win.
but it's very very clear to me that we 're going to stay the course, that we 're going to build Iraqi security capacity, that the Iraqi are serious about being partners in this effort and they 're very serious about taking over the effort.
The insurgents ca n't win.
The vice president Dick Cheney recently said that the insurgency is now in its last throes.
I pressed him on that issue when I interviewed him earlier this week.
Here was his response in part.
If you look at what the dictionary says about throes it can still be a violent period the throes of a revolution.
Is the insurgency right now in its last throes?
The insurgency is in a no-win position.
The insurgency can cause casualties.
They can grab headlines.
But as long as the politics move forward in a positive direction that is considered to be legitimate by the majority of the Iraqi people and as long as Iraqi security forces continue to develop at the rate that they 're developing and as long as American forces continue to stay there to provide the strength for those Iraqi forces as they develop we are after all the shield behind which politics takes place the insurgency wo n't make it.
There's been discussion already as you well know of a quagmire emerging in Iraq.
Senator Kennedy suggested there was a quagmire.
the defense secretary Donald Rumsfeld insists there is no quagmire.
listen to this exchange that they had.
We are in serious trouble in Iraq.
and this war has been consistently and grossly mismanaged.
And we are now in a seemingly intractable quagmire.
Our troops are dying.
And there really is no end in sight.
There is n't a person at this table who agrees with you that we 're in a quagmire and that there's no end in sight.
Give us your assessment.
It's very interesting that we testified on Capital Hill for about nine hours and we take the nine second sound bites out that seem to get the most headlines.
But our message was pretty clear across the board.
We 're making progress.
The insurgents ca n't win.
We 're the shield behind which politics and the develop of Iraqi security forces will take place and eventually be decisive in that we 're in a partnership with the Iraqi people.
People seem to think we 're fighting against Iraqis.
Well there are some small number of insurgents that we 're fighting against.
But we 're fighting with a lot more Iraqis day by day.
And they 're giving their lives in the defense of their country.
This is not a quagmire.
it is a marathon.
and we 're at about the twenty-first mile.
and we just need to not hit the wall.
We need to get through till the end.
How many insurgents are there?
During the testimony you heard that the maximum number was about twenty thousand.
George Casey said one-tenth of one percent.
But you got to understand there were committed people.
There are people that support the insurgency.
When politics move in different directions the numbers go up.
they go down.
uh but there's probably about a thousand foreign fighters and about somewhere less than ten thousand committed insurgents in the field most of which are in the uh mostly western part of Iraq area and uh to a certain extent in Baghdad.
They ca n't beat the Iraqi security forces.
They can cause casualties.
They do n't really go after the Iraqi security forces.
they go after civilians.
I mean this is the most cynical strategy I 've ever seen.
They ca n't be successful.
they ca n't win.
The uh ranking democrat on the senate foreign relations committee Joe Biden was just in Iraq.
He came back gave a speech in Washington this week.
He said of the hundred or so Iraqi battalions that you 're training only three of them right now are fully capable of going out and are battle tested and battle ready.
is that true?
Well he was shown a chart.
and you can always look at a chart differently.
And the chart said that three battalions were theoretically independent capable of independent operations.
that's not really a good description of what the Iraqi armed forces are doing.
Up in the North there's two divisions that are fighting in the area.
there's a division that is fighting down in the Baghdad area.
there is a growing capability of the Iraqi security forces to be more and more effective against the insurgency.
and we should not underestimate their improvement.
On the other hand they 're not ready to stand alone yet.
but they will be.
Just ahead more of my conversation with General Abizaid including his assessment of the morale of US troops in Iraq and around the middle east.
Then we 'll hear from a key US lawmaker who's questioning the strategy in Iraq democratic senator Karl Levin.
Plus Lebanese president Emile Lahoud talks about the political unrest in his country and what it could mean for the entire mid-east region.
Late Edition continues right after this.
Our web question of the week asks this should the US set a timetable for withdrawing troops from Iraq?
You can cast your vote.
Go to CNN dot com slash late edition.
We 'll have the results at the end of this program.
Up next more on my interview with general John Abizaid.
He 'll talk about training Iraqi troops.
when will they be ready to move ahead on their own.
You 're watching Late Edition the last word in Sunday talk.
Welcome back to Late Edition.
We return now to my interview with the commander of the US military central command general John Abizaid.
Here's what the economist magazine wrote about the Iraqi military in the June twentieth issue.
Corrupt patchily trained and equipped often abysmally led and devoid of confidence.
Most army units can not operate above platoon size.
Between Iraqis and Americans there is deep mistrust.
Iraqi units billeted on an American bases are fenced off from their host as a security measure.
The partnership that exists between Iraqi units and American units is certainly much stronger and much more robust than that article uh would indicate.
I do n't agree with what that says.
I think there is a good partnership.
There is good coordination in the field.
And more Iraqis are dying on the battle field fighting for their country against the insurgency than Americans.
It's a point we 've got to understand.
We have to respect them for fighting the way that they 're fighting.
Just look at how things were in the American army in seventeen seventy five seventeen seventy six as we think about the fourth of July holiday ahead of us.
we had a terrible time getting our act together to win against the British.
but ultimately we did.
And that's what's going to happen with the Iraqi armed forces as well.
They need time.
they need help.
that's what we 're giving them.
The Sunday Times of London has a piece today suggesting that there has emerged a dialog of discussions between US officials and Iraqi insurgents.
is that true?
I'm not sure that I would characterize it as a dialog between US officials and insurgents.
I would say that US officials and Iraqi officials are looking for the right people in the Sunni community to talk to in order to insure that the Sunni Arab community becomes part of the political process.
And clearly we know that the vast majority of the insurgents are from the Sunni Arab community.
It makes sense to talk to them.
we 're not going to compromise with Zarqawi.
Uh we will look for opportunities to find out how to bring the Sunni Arab community into the political fold.
and when we do that and they participate in a peaceful way I think Iraq will really start moving in a positive direction.
I sense that Abu Musab al-Zarqawi terrorist number one in Iraq still on the loose right now.
but is he-
do you have any idea where he is?
we certainly have some ideas where he operates.
we know where his networks are.
we put a lot of pressure on his networks.
We 've been pretty successful here over the last several months working against his networks.
it's only a matter of time for Zarqawi.
Can you give us a sense of where he might be the north the south the east the west?
I do n't think it ever serves any purpose when a military commander tells the international world the internal community where a particular enemy might be.
I think uh we have a good idea.
we know what we 're doing in our efforts, how to get him.
I want to also stress that it's not about one man, it's about his network.
His network exists inside Iraq.
It's connected to Al-Queda.
It's got facilitation nodes in Syria.
It brings foreign fighters in from Saudi Arabia and North Africa.
It is connected to what is happening in Afghanistan and what is happening in Pakistan.
It is a global battle that we face.
The Zarqawi part of the network needs to be taken down.
He needs to be captured or killed.
But we should understand it's a long war ahead of us.
It's a difficult enemy that we 'll have to fight over time throughout the region.
Do you agree with the CIA assessment and a recent assessment that the terrorist training ground of Iraq today effectively has become a more effective training ground for Al-Queda and for international terrorists than Afghanistan under the Taliban ever was?
No I do n't agree with it.
The terrorist are going to train organize operate and strike wherever they can find a safe haven.
they are certainly fighting in Iraq.
I would tell you if you 're a young Saudi that decides to volunteer for the Jihad and you come into Iraq the chances are extremely good that you 'll never come back from Iraq.
And so the mortality rate for foreign fighters is really phenomenal.
the place where terrorism really can get established is in places that are ungoverned spaces that are like between the Afghanistan Pakistan border area in the horn of Africa down in parts of the Arabian principle.
and we should not kid ourselves that Iraq somehow or other has made a difference.
Iraq is part of the battle.
It's central in the battle.
Uh but it's not the only battle.
Is it time to reconsider women American women in combat in the aftermath of what happened this past week?
More American women died in combat were injured I believe in any time since World War Two.
No it's not time to reconsider.
you 're happy with the rules that exist right now as far as women are concerned?
our armed forces are better than they 've ever been.
They 're made up the way they are.
That's how we fight.
That's how we do our business.
We need to keep them the way they are.
And we 're being quite successful.
The CIA director Porter Goss recently said he has an excellent idea where Osama Bin Laden is.
do you?
We have a clear understanding of where the Al-Queda senior leadership operates in a very very large geographic area between areas of the Afghan and Pakistani border area.
and I would say that's about the best I would be able to do in answering that question.
I heard your testimony this week before the House and the Senate.
and I'm going to play for you what I thought may have been the most alarming words I heard from you.
Listen to this.
When my soldiers say to me and ask me the question whether or not they 've got support from the American people or not that worries me.
and they 're starting to do that.
What did you mean by that?
we do n't need to fight this war looking over our shoulder worrying about support back home.
We need to know we 've got support back home.
American soldiers fight best when they know the people back home are behind them.
We are fighting for all the right reasons against one of the most despicable and dangerous enemies this nation has ever faced.
We need to know that the people are with us.
I think the American public strongly supports the troops.
what they 're concerned about is the war.
The most recent CNN USA Today Gallup poll uh showed that the numbers have gone down to thirty nine percent favor the war in Iraq compared to seventy one percent shortly after major combat operations were over.
That's a disturbing element I assume for you as far as the demoralization of the US military.
the only thing I can tell you Wolf is when I go to the field the soldiers are uniformly confident about their ability to face this enemy make Iraq Afghanistan whatever area they happen to be operating in better defeat the terrorist wherever they find them and they all understand it's going to take time.
it's not a sprint.
it's a marathon.
We need people to understand it will take time but that ultimately we will prevail.
One final question.
now you 're command of central command has the whole middle east.
uh the new president elected of Iran he's considered a hard liner.
what if anything from the military's perspective does this mean for the United States?
I'm really not in the position to be able to talk about the newly elected president.
I do n't know much about him.
Iran's an important player in the overall scheme of the Middle East.
We need to have them working towards stability in both Afghanistan and Iraq.
and we 're hopeful that under the new leadership that they 'll continue to do that.
Thanks very much General for joining us.
good luck.
If I could just say one thing on this fourth of July weekend, if you would n't mind me saying it. I would really just ask people as they 're gathered with friends and families to remember our young men and women overseas fighting.
Uh our young people are doing a great job.
they 're really the finest generation we 've ever put in the field.
And uh I can testify to that.
I was with you only a couple months ago in the region.
and I saw first hand what they 're doing.
Appreciate it.
Thanks Wolf.
And up next we 'll get a quick check of what's in the news right now.
Then is it time for US troops to leave Iraq?
We 'll ask the top democrat on the senate arms services committee Karl Levitt.
He's standing by.
We 'll be right back.
Hello I'm Frederica Whitfield with these headlines at this hour.
Iran's president-elect says Iran does not need the United States to help it become more self-reliant.
He also vowed to pursue a peaceful nuclear program and said his government will not be extremist.
The US has criticized Iran's recent election as a sham.
Five suspects held in the disappearance of Alabaman teen Natalie Halloway are inside an Aruba Courtroom this hour.
A judge is deciding whether police can continue to detain them in present.
Experience the power of CNN video on your computer.
Log onto CNN dot com click on the video link and browse for the video you want to see.
Watch what you want whenever you want free at CNN dot com.
I'm Patricia Whitfield.
More headlines at the top of the hour.
Late Edition returns right after this.
Welcome back to Late Edition.
I'm Wolf Blitzer in Washington.
Joining us now from New York the top democrat on the Senate Arms Services Committee Karl Levit of Michigan.
He's also a key member of the Senate Select Intelligence committee.
Senator Levin welcome back to Late Edition.
Great to be with you Wolf.
You just heard General Abizaid say that the US military is now at what he said mile twenty one in a marathon.
As far as dealing with the insurgency in Iraq there are twenty six point two miles in a marathon.
by my math that would be what about seventy five percent of the way there?
That sounds pretty upbeat.
Yeah it was a very upbeat assessment.
Uh I hope it's realistic.
When he testified in front of us it did n't sound that way quite this week.
He said that the insurgency has not declined.
Uh he said that there's an increased number of Jihadist coming across the border into Iraq to fight.
Uh that does n't sound like decline to me.
It's not the kind of dynamic which I think we ought to say is acceptable.
And the status quo to me is just simply not working.
and we 've got to change the current dynamic in a number of ways.
Vice President also as you know for the past several weeks has had an upbeat assessment.
I want you to listen to what he said a few weeks ago, what he told Larry King and what he told me on Thursday.
Listen to this these two excerpts from the Vice President.
I think they 're in the last throes if you will of the insurgency.
we 've-
If you look at what the dictionary says about throes it can still be a you know violent period the throes of a revolution.
He does n't seem to be backing away from those controversial comments the last throes of the insurgency.
You 're privy to all the intelligence as both the member of the armed services and the intelligence committees.
what's your bottom line assessment?
Well the bottom line is that that assessment of the Vice President is a rosy colored scenario.
just the way going into Iraq was rose colored.
Uh when he relies on the dictionary to define the word throes he's leaving out the word that he put before throes which is the word last.
He said it was the last throes of the insurgency.
and I think he's got to just have his eyes closed to what the reality is over there.
Our troops deserve the most objective clearest assessment that they can possibly get.
They are tremendous people.
The men and women over there in harm's way deserve everything we can provide for them.
and that includes the most realistic assessment we can give them.
To suggest that this insurgency is in the last throes flies right in the face of the testimony of our leaders which was given to us this week and also the testimony for instance of the uh spokesman for the central command who said that this insurgency is not declining and that the number of jihadist coming across the border is increasing.
But you will acknowledge that General Abizaid at least this morning here on Late Edition seemed to get close to what the vice president is saying when he said the US is at mile twenty one in a twenty six mile marathon.
Alright well I have n't run a marathon.
Uh you probably can see that uh for your self.
But uh I'm not a marathoner.
But nonetheless the last five minutes the last five miles I understand are the toughest.
I hope we 're at mile twenty one.
But I 've got to tell you I just do n't see from the casualty numbers which continue to be about the same even getting worse.
And what General Abizaid also said this morning was that as long as the political process keeps moving along that then there's some real hope that there 'll be a good conclusion fairly soon but in order for the political process to move along that means that there must be a constitution which is agreed upon by August the fifteenth.
Uh there's one six month extension permitted.
but that's it.
There's a timetable which the Iraqis have set for themselves and accepted.
And we must insist it.
And this administration must insist.
And I hope the President will insist on Tuesday night that the Iraqis live up to that timetable because if that political process does not move along on that timetable the military solution can not solve this problem.
And they ought to tell the Iraqis the administration that we expect them to live up to that timetable August fifteenth.
One six month extension.
Elections.
first of all approval of the Constitution by the people then elections this year.
and they should be told that we can not make an open-ended commitment to you.
We can not stay there the way the secretary of state Rice said we 'll stay there as long as they need us.
That is too open-ended.
They should be told that we will have to reconsider our position if you do n't live up to your time table including the withdrawal of American forces.
That to me is the key.
But you 're not calling for a timetable directly right now as some other democratic and even a few republican colleagues are suggesting that there should be a timetable.
you 're not going that far?
No I am not saying that we should set the timetable now.
What I am saying and this is critically important is that we should tell the Iraqis not just that we expect them to live up to their own timetable for adopting a constitution but that if they do not live up to that timetable, since the political process is the only hope for defeating the insurgency, if they do n't live up to their own timetable we would then have to consider all options including but not limited to removal of our troops.
The defense secretary Donald Rumsfeld testified before other committees in congress this week.
uh I want you to listen to what he said about the readiness of Iraqi troops right now.
Today dozens of trained battalions are capable of conducting anti-insurgent operations albeit with coalition support.
Now you do n't dispute that?
No it's the number that can operate independently which is just a few.
That's the key issue.
They can work with us and be with us.
but how many can handle the insurgents on their own?
It's very few.
the reports that have been printed say three.
Do you uh want the defense secretary Donald Rumsfeld like senator Kennedy does to resign?
I think the problem is the policy that Rumsfeld is implementing.
If I thought his resignation would change the policies and would help to change the course and change the dynamic then I would favor him.
but I do n't think so.
I think that the problem here that we 've had right from the beginning is overly optimistic predictions on the part of what would happen if we attacked Iraq.
And it's these policies which need to be changed.
and the resignation does not effectuate the change in policy.
so I'm focusing on the policies and what needs to be done to change those policies.
You heard General Abizaid also express concern about the morale if you will of the US men and women in Iraq and elsewhere.
Increasingly he's being asked questions whether the American people are behind them support what they 're doing.
How do you as a concerned critic of the policy of the war in Iraq deal with that kind of uh situation?
By telling the men and women how much we 're determined to support them as long as they 're there that we 're also determined to be constructive critics of the policies which not only sent them there uh unequipped and without the international support and without plans for the aftermath.
Uh those chickens are coming home to roost constantly.
But constructive critics of the policies nonetheless are totally committed to support the men and women in our military.
They deserve no less than the best thinking the most realistic thinking that we provide them.
They 're entitled to that.
and as far as I'm concerned the critics are determined that this time it's not going to be like Vietnam, this time as long as our men and women are there everything we possibly can do to support them is going to be done including realistic thinking and constructive criticism.
A final question uh Senator.
On the Karl Rove controversy that erupted this week the deputy white house chief of staff said this in New York.
I want you to listen.
Conservatives saw the savagery of nine eleven and the attacks and prepared for war.
Liberals saw the savagery of the nine eleven attacks and wanted to prepare indictments and offer therapy and understanding to our attackers.
uh the White House insists he was referring to moveon dot org and Micheal Moore.
uh what do you say in response to what Karl Rove said?
Well the context is that the opposition to this administration is somehow or another weak and does n't respond to terrorism.
I thought it was shameful.
They ought to apologize for it.
President ought to disown it.
Um and uh it is just so disgraceful to split Americans to divide Americans for any kind of perceived political gain.
I think it backfires when something like that is done.
And I hope that the uh president would disassociate himself and tell Karl Rove that he ought to be ashamed of himself for stooping to that level to divide us in order to try to pander to a particular audience or to make some kind of perceived uh political gain.
Thank god those kind of attacks backfire.
Senator Levin thanks very much for joining us on Late Edition.
Thank you Wolf.
Up next political winds of change in Lebanon.
I 'll speak with that country's President Emile Lahoud.
Late Edition will be right back.
An ex-general and former head of the Lebanese Army president Emile Lahoud himself a Maronite Christian has been in power since nineteen ninety eight.
With his term set to expire last November, Syria demanded and the Lebanese parliament approved a constitutional amendment extending his presidency till two thousand seven.
But with the assassination of a former prime minister in February the anti-Syrian winds of political change are blowing.
Earlier this year what's called the power of the people managed to dissolve the Syrian backed Lebanese government forced the removal of Syrian troops and called for new elections.
The opposition movement headed by son Saud won a majority in parliament in the elections and is now poised to lead Lebanon.
Today we are facing a new era in the life of Lebanon.
With the blame focused on Damascus and pro-Syrian Lebanese officials opposition leaders have now called on President Lahoud to resign.
Lahoud has condemned the killings insisting he's not responsible for them.
And just a short while ago I spoke with president Lahoud from the presidential palace in Lebanon.
Mr. President thanks very much for joining us.
Welcome to Late Edition.
You 're seen as a close ally of Syria.
In the aftermath of the Lebanese elections are you inclined to move Lebanon away from that close alliance with Syria?
At first I 'd like to say that there are historic links between Syria and Lebanon that has been a long time.
And uh we have been uh on very friendly terms for long time.
And if you look at the of Lebanon you see that uh we have the sea and we have Syria on most of our borders and uh in the south we have Israel.
So we have to be on very good terms with Syria and continue to do that.
Mr. President uh there have been a series of assassinations though in Lebanon including the former prime minister.
Two other anti-Syrian personalities were assassinated in recent weeks.
Many see the hand of the Syrian government behind these assassinations.
do you?
Well I can tell you that the ones that did this abominable assassination uh against late prime minister are the enemies of Lebanon.
And they want to do harm to Lebanon.
And who could be the enemies who benefited from that?
For sure it's not Lebanon nor Syria because until the assassination everything was fine, the stability and security were at its best according to Interpol who are number one on the list of security in the world.
And what happened made us uh go back because we lost a lot by it and I'm sure that nobody harms himself.
So it could n't be Syria nor Lebanon.
It must be the enemies of Lebanon.
Who do you see as responsible for those assassinations therefore?
Well it could be one of two.
First we had troubles as you know a few years back with the fundamentalists.
And uh even before nine eleven we had uh an attack on our soldiers.
and we lost a lot of them.
and we had to react.
and we put them in prison.
That was before the nine eleven.
Eh and at this time we were asked why we did that.
We said because they were trying to unstable Lebanon.
And eh another thing happened only a few months before the assassination of president.
And that was when uh eh uh they tried to put a bomb in the uh Italian embassy.
So are you accusing Al Queda uh Mr. President?
Excuse me for interrupting.
And now they are-
Are you accusing Al Queda of being responsible?
I can say it's a fundamentalist group.
I do n't know who they belong to.
but uh we had them a few years back.
and we had it a months ago.
they are fundamentalists.
listen to what the spokesman at the White House the press secretary Scott McClellan said on June tenth.
listen to this.
That would be one of the reasons.
There are reports that we have been hearing about for some time about a Syrian hit list targetting key Lebanese public figures.
He suggests that there's a Syrian hit list targetting Lebanese politicians.
So you totally disagree with the White House on the possibility that Syrian intelligence may be responsible for these assassinations.
I can tell you that Syria is the most that is losing uh because of these assassinations.
So why should they do it?
Whereas as I said the fundamentalist who tried a few years back and only a few months before the assassination could be one of the suspects.
Another one could be our permanent enemy.
As you know we have still troubles in the south.
and it could be that they are trying again.
And we 've had assassinations before Mr..
We had an ex uh minister.
we had.
we had.
and at the time Israel was accused.
So why now?
They 're trying to accuse Lebanon and Syria.
A lot of observers of Lebanon blame Syria's interference in Lebanese politics over the years most recently getting the parliament to extend your term of office for another term for another three years as being responsible for this current wave of anti-Syrian attitudes reflected in the elections that have occured over these past few weeks.
Are you thinking about resigning?
For sure I'm not resigning.
I'm staying until the end of my term.
and I can tell you I was elected by the Lebanese parliament.
The ex-prime minister Mr. uh gave me his votes as well.
So why do they say that it was the Syrians that did that?
It was in a free will by the members of parliament.
The United Nations secretary general said this recently.
He said we are now receiving reports that there may be elements that are still there.
and we are considering the possible return of the verification team to ascertain what's going on.
He was referring to the possibility that Syrian intelligence agents are still operating inside Lebanon even though the Syrian military has withdrawn.
Have Syrian intelligence operatives left Lebanon?
Well I can tell you that there is a fact uh finding mission by the UN that is looking at this uh subject and uh there will be reporting in two weeks.
And we will know the answer.
but all I know myself is that all the have withdrawn with their intelligence.
And now there is nobody of the Syrians.
and uh I can tell you that uh you will hear a lot of speculation always about this subject but never eh somebody showing any proof of that.
The United Nations security council resolution fifteen fifty nine calls and I'm quoting now for the disbanding and disarmament of all Lebanese and non-Lebanese militias.
Do you want the Hezbollah militia to disarm to give up their weapons and only have a Lebanese army that has weapons?
Well I can tell you this uh matter eh eh for Lebanese the Hezbollah the majority of Lebanese consider it as a national resistance because they freed Lebanon of Israel.
We still have the.
And this subject you can not do it by force.
it must have a consensus between the Lebanese.
And the Lebanese agree on that.
And because of that it's a matter of Lebanese to decide.
and it should n't be done by force.
All I can tell you that still Lebanon is at war, it's not at peace.
As you know we still have problems.
and they have n't finished.
one of them is the presentation of the Palestinians who are in Lebanon.
And this is a very grave problem for Lebanon.
Lebanese consider in their constitution that there will not be any of the Palestinians nor there will be any partition of Lebanon.
So all these problems have n't finished yet.
So it's up to the Lebanese to decide between themselves and not do it by force.
We are so happy that we have reached the stability that many countries in the area envy us.
so we do n't want to lose that stability.
All we say is that we are in to know what the UN investigation team concerning these assassinations will get to.
And uh just between brackets before the decision of the UN I had asked for an investigation UN team to come and when they will come reach to a point when we 'll know whoever is doing these assassinations.
Then the truth will be known.
And be sure.
there are people who are against Lebanon.
Mr. President unfortunately we 're all out of time.
uh thanks for spending a few moments with us here on Late Edition.
Were you saying something?
Thank you.
all the best.
thank you.
And do n't forget our web question of the week.
should the US set a timetable for withdrawing troops from Iraq?
Log onto CNN dot com slash late edition to cast your vote.
We 'll take a quick break.
we 'll be right back.
Still ahead on Late Edition an exclusive interview with Iraqi Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari about his visit with President Bush and the huge challenges still facing his country. Plus my conversations with two of Washington's most influential politicians the Vice President Dick Cheney and Democratic Senator Ted Kennedy.
All that coming up right at the top of the hour.