Homeland security inspector General Clark Kent Irven and former active director of the CIA John McGlaughlin.
And is the Discovery Shuttle crew in trouble?
Perspective from NASA's Wayne Hail.
Live from CNN in Washington this is Late Edition with Wolf Blitzer.
Good evening Washington.
nine AM in Los Angeles five PM in London and eight PM in Baghdad.
Wherever you 're watching from around the world thanks very much for joining us for Late Edition.
We 'll get to our interview with Iraq's national security adviser in just a moment.
First though let's get a quick check of what's in the news right now.
Thanks Wolf.
I'm Frederika Witfield of the CNN center in Atlanta.
Here are the headlines right now.
Two brothers of suspected London bomber Hussain Osmond are under arrest in Italy.
Osmond is talking and denies any links to Al Quada.
A judge ruled today he will remain in jail today while fighting extradition.
Meanwhile in England police today arrested six more terror suspects in a sweep in southern England.
They are being held in Suffix.
A bodyguard of Iraq deputy prime minister Ahmed Chalabi was killed today.
Convoy was attacked by insurgents south of Baghdad.
Police say Chalabi was not in that convoy.
The rains have returned.
and water is again rising in Mumbai India.
Some parts of the city are under seven feet of water.
The death toll in India from monsoons driven floods and landslides has reached one thousand.
I'm Frederika Whitfield.
Now back to Wolf.
Thanks very much Frederika.
With the deadline to complete an Iraqi constitution just three weeks away there are serious concerns that an unrelenting insurgency and disputes over the role of religion could derail that goal.
Just a short while ago I spoke with Iraq's national security adviser Mowaffak al-Rubaie about the political and security challenges still facing his country the upcoming trial of Saddam Hussein and much more.
Mowaffak al-Rubaie thanks very much for joining us from Baghdad.
There is word now that there may have to be a delay of what thirty days in terms of drafting the proposed Iraqi constitution.
The deadline was supposed to be mid August August fifteenth.
What's the situation right now?
Uh I think there are uh uh some little problems uh need to be ironed out.
And I believe we will uh try our level best to stick to the timetable because uh it is very important eh for the credibility of the government uh and for the political process as well.
Uh so I am very much hopeful that we will meet all these deadlines.
Well can you confirm that you will seek a thirty day extension beyond August fifteenth?
Is that already official?
Uh well uh the constitutional committee has not finalized this yet.
And uh I believe uh uh uh if it is delayed the uh intention of it is to include all parties especially those political parties who have not taken part in the last election.
You 're referring to the Iraqi Sunnis The minority uh in Iraq.
Uh what is the major problem that's forcing this delay?
Uh well uh Wolf they are fine-tuning on the issue of uh the extent of the authority of the federal state and what are the role of the center as opposed to the regions.
And also the role of uh uh religion is still-
There's some fine tuning on the drafting before we put it forward to our people.
And a couple of days a few days is not going to make a huge difference.
I think we need to uh get our Sunni uh Arabs included in the political process.
It is pivotal part of the uh uh Iraqi society.
and if we want to get the referendum uh uh and our people to ratify uh our draft of constitution in the next referendum we need to include every part of Iraq.
As you know that under the terms of uh the law you could extend this drafting of the constitution for six months beyond the August fifteenth deadline do you think that might be necessary beyond the thirty days?
Uh I assume you 're confirming that the thirty days uh will be required an additional thirty days.
but would it be necessary to go an extra six months?
No I ca n't uh confirm the thirty days now.
But I can tell you every uh body in the political process be it Shia or Sunni Kurds or Arab Kaldo-Assyrians are so determined and the government is so determined, to meet all the deadlines and to not get any postponement of this uh political process because we believe that any delaying of the political process is going to play into the hands of the terrorists and of those who are adopting violence and they will claim victory that they have succeeded in delaying the political process.
The Los Angeles Times this week uh suggested that the draft Iraqi constitution would include and let me read from the story in the Los Angeles Times Islam is the official religion of the state It is the basic source for legislation It is forbidden to pass a law that contradicts its fixed rulings.
Is that true?
Will Islam be the official religion of the state and the source of all law in Iraq?
Uh well it does n't say the source of all laws.
It says the basic source of laws.
And remember.
this is an Islamic country.
The background the culture the history the identity of the country-
uh uh um um an overwhelming majority of uh uh the population in this country are Muslims.
so uh it's very normal.
it does not mean that there's going to be a discrimination against other religions.
uh we have uh a sizable and a large uh size community a Christian community.
and they 're going to be very well respected.
Also uh uh uh there are Sabians Yazidis and other religions.
So they 're going to be all respected uh minorities in the country.
What do you say to those who might fear though that Iraq a Shia dominated Iraq with Islam the official religion could turn out to be like its neighbor Iran?
I think those who are claiming that they do not understand the nature of this country.
This is a multi-societal country.
This is a very heterogeneous country.
Uh this is a country which is composed of uh all sorts of sects religion nationalities and uh uh ethnic minorities.
And to form and establish uh uh a democratic a liberal uh system in Iraq no community should dominate.
Uh democracy as you know Wolf is the rule of majority.
but also it's securing the rights of the minority as well.
As you know there are a hundred thirty nine thousand or so US troops in Iraq right now.
General George Casey the US military commander on the ground in Iraq suggested earlier in the week that perhaps that number could be significantly reduced beginning in the spring.
is that an optimistic assessment or realistic?
Uh I think it's very realistic.
The Prime Minister uh Jaafari has proposed to a series of meetings of the Ministerial Committee for National Security uh uh uh a proposal whereby the multinational forces will pull out from some of the provinces some of the cities where the security is okay.
And the eh eh Iraqi police and new Iraqi army can uh maintain the security in these regions.
So we believe that the multinational forces are ready to leave some of these cities some of the provinces and we take over uh the responsibility of the security of these uh provinces regions and large cities.
so what is a realistic number for the spring.
a hundred thirty-nine thousand going down to what?
Uh let me uh give you some uh well approximate figures.
Of course these figures are going to be condition based because until and unless the right conditions are created in some of these areas the multinational forces will not leave and the Iraqi government will not ask them to leave.
and we are working very hard to create these conditions in some of these provinces and some of the regions as well as districts.
Uh when the conditions are right then we will ask the multinational forces to leave uh these areas.
Uh I would have a guess of a very good number in tens of thousands.
they will leave in the first part in the first half of next year.
And a considerable number uh of the multinational forces will probably leave Iraq uh by before the end of next year.
So in other words it would go down from a hundred thirty-nine thousand to what let's say by next summer a year from now.
what would be a realistic number?
I would n't like to uh guess a figure because I think this will play uh into the terrorists ' hands as well as it's unfair.
there are so many factors who are playing in this process.
and one of it is the training of our Iraqi security forces.
and the other is uh the uh level of insurgency and the level of violence and the terrorism uh the evaluation of our enemies and our Iraqi security forces.
There are so many factors who are variables.
there are so many are variables in this process.
I do n't think uh we should uh guess numbers here.
he said Only a small number of Iraqi security forces are taking on the insurgents and terrorists by themselves.
a small percentage.
How many Iraqi troops and police forces are fully capable of operating right now without US or multinational coalition assistance?
Uh admittedly the number-
I would n't go into percentages.
but let me tell you something.
by December we will have a total number of our Iraqi security forces uh including uh uh Iraqi policemen a new Iraqi army and counterterrorism special forces.
uh they 're going to be in the region of two hundred thousand plus.
By well before the end of the year.
But of that two hundred thousand plus how many of them are fully capable right now to operate without US assistance?
We hope by the end of the year uh probably more than a third of this uh uh security force Iraqi security force are going to be able to operate independently.
And obviously you will need the multinational forces to stay over the horizon just in case uh they need the help.
and they will get the help.
There was a report released by the Pentagon and the State Department this past week on Iraqi military preparedness among other things.
it said this.
Recruitment and vetting procedures are faulty despite recent improvements.
too many recruits are marginally literate.
Some show up for training with criminal records or physical handicaps.
and some recruits allegedly are infiltrating insurgents.
Uh is that accurate?
Uh uh admittedly Wolf we do have some problems in recruitment and the vetting procedure and uh the possible infiltration of our security forces.
Uh we do have uh a few problems.
but we have uh solutions as well.
for the vetting procedure we have now established a uh uh procedure uh to scrutinize and meticulously vet our uh intelligence agencies ' uh recruits.
We have also uh uh uh uh strengthened and tightened the recruitment procedure for the ministry of uh uh Interior and Ministry of Defense.
Uh so we are doing the work.
but remember.
uh this is a country which we start a year ago with no single policeman no single new Iraqi army.
And now uh we 're about to have a hundred and seventy thousand Iraqi security forces now.
So you 're bound to in this process-
And it's a very quick fast process of recruitment and training.
So you bound to have uh some mistakes.
and we are addressing these mistakes.
I ca n't deny that there are some mistakes.
When will the trial the real trial of Saddam Hussein finally begin?
Uh I would very much hope that he will be in the box in front of Iraqi people in an Iraqi specialists tribunal well before the fifteenth of uh October before we go for our referendum.
Uh and to ask the people to say yes to that constitution on the fifteenth of October we will say this is your future and this Saddam Hussein gone into the past and gone with the wind if you like.
So when do you think it will all be wrapped up uh would you guess.
how long will this trial last?
And can we assume he will get the death sentence?
Well uh this is not going to be a political trial.
We 're not going to allow Saddam Hussein to uh be another uh Milosevic.
or uh uh is going to uh give us uh his rhetorics and his uh speeches on his nonsense.
We are going to concentrate on the criminal side of it.
and we stick to the criminal side of it.
And we have now at least five completed files on crimes Saddam Hussein has committed.
and we have some of these files.
we have documents material evidence in his own handwriting in his red ink signature crimes he has committed and making orders to commit crimes.
So each one of these five files we have now against Saddam Hussein uh probably well uh uh can execute him or uh can sentence him to death.
But we are not going to make this a political one.
We are not going to wait for ages until we uh uh get ready for all his crimes because if you wait for all his crimes probably we 'll wait all our life uh um um because his crimes are innumerable.
So do you think that his trial will last weeks or months?
.
Well eh I would n't like to eh preempt or influence the trial because uh this is independent judicial uh process and I would not like to uh uh apply any pressure on the judge uh to uh speed up the trial.
I think we 'll leave the judicial system to its own devices so that they will take their own time and they will uh sentence Saddam.
But we will make this as an example in the Arab world in the Muslim world that this is going to be a fair just trial with a defense counsel in there with a uh uh proper eh prosecuting counsel as well there.
and everybody will watch this trial live on television.
We 're almost out of time Mr. al-Rubaie.
but uh I know your prime minister Ibrahim al Jaafari is working on a multipoint plan to deal with life in Iraq right now.
We see the images nearly daily insurgent car bombings suicide bombings improvised explosive devices.
How do people go about their day to day activities living in this constant fear and manage to allow life to go forward under any semblance of normality?
Well eh the prime minister has proposed a twelve point plan uh for the national security.
and uh it was discussed in detail in the Ministerial Committee for National Security chain of meetings.
And this plan uh uh incorporates coordination of our intelligence agencies.
uh also it incorporates securing Baghdad as the capital of Iraq and also increasing the uh protection of the infrastructure uh uh formation of target oriented special forces uh uh also increasing the intelligence activity because you know this is a intelligence uh led war, this is not a traditional classical war.
So uh it includes also the uh increase of the uh inclusion of political parties also the role of the people in-
Those eight point five million who voted for this government what is their role in the security.
Uh There are a lot of uh other issues uh uh which are included in this twelve points plan of Prime Minister Jaafari.
Mowaffak Al Rubaie it was kind of you to spend some time with us here on Late Edition.
thanks very much.
good luck to you.
and good luck to all the people of Iraq.
Thank you very much for having me Wolf.
And just ahead is a timetable set, should one be set, for US troops to start leaving Iraq?
We 'll ask two key United States senators about that and more.
Then Discovery's mission.
we 'll talk with NASA's deputy shuttle program manager Wayne Hale about concerns over the shuttles ' safety.
And later Egypt trying to recover from a deadly terrorist strike.
We 'll talk with the country's prime minister Ahmed Nazif about the global war on terror.
Late Edition continues right after this.
Our web question of the week asks this should religion play a role in Iraq's new constitution?
You can cast your vote.
go to CNN dot com slash late edition.
We 'll have the results later in the program.
Straight ahead Democratic Senator Joe Lieberman and Republican Senator John Kyl.
they 're standing by to weigh in on where things stand in Iraq the war on terror and much more.
You 're watching Late Edition the last word in Sunday talk.
I do believe we 'll still be able to take some fairly substantial reductions after these elections in the spring and summer next year.
US Army General George Casey the head of coalition forces in Iraq talking this past week about the possible start of US troop withdrawals next year.
Welcome back to Late Edition.
Joining us now are two key members of the United States Senate.
In his home state of Arizona Republican Senator Jon Kyl.
he's a member of the Judiciary Committee.
And here in Washington Democratic Senator Joe Lieberman of Connecticut.
He's the ranking member of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committees.
Senators welcome back to Late Edition.
and Senator Kyl let me start with you.
Is it realistic to assume that tens of thousands of US troops might be able to get out of Iraq by next summer?
Well General Casey uh and the President and the other military advisers will make that decision.
I do n't think we have any way of knowing right now whether that's realistic.
but it certainly is the hope.
That's why the Iraqis are being trained up in order to be able to take uh a lot of the fight that uh our military is engaged in right now.
and obviously that is our hope and our expectation.
Senator Lieberman what's your expectation?
Uh it's a great goal.
but um I'm worried about projecting it too much to the point that we uh mislead people um.
People like Senator Kyl and I who 've supported uh the war in Iraq uh know how important victory is.
and we 've got to be very careful that we do n't just declare victory but we achieve victory that we do n't uh give encouragement frankly to those who have been pressing us to set a deadline for getting out of Iraq.
You can only get out of Iraq when we achieve the mission.
And uh unfortunately uh the recent reports we 've had from the Pentagon to the Senate Armed Services Committee about the state of readiness of the Iraqi security forces are not encouraging.
Maybe they 'll make progress in the time between now and next spring.
I hope so.
there's nothing I 'd like more than seeing the troops come back but only if circumstances justify it.
Senator Kyl there's one argument that's being made that the Iraqis would be better off with a much smaller US military footprint there.
and for one reason it would give greater pressure or put added pressure really on the Iraqi military really to take charge.
Well and that's the tension. and Senator Lieberman is exactly correct.
we ca n't leave until we 've achieved what we are there to achieve which is a secure country uh with the Iraqis being able uh to do it themselves.
Uh but there's always a tension between uh uh staying too long in order to do the job the way we would do it and yet giving them an opportunity to try their hand at it.
And our military people are on the ground.
they 're able to make those judgments.
and I think we have to defer significantly to their judgment in that regard.
The other argument on the other hand uh Senator Lieberman you hear from Senator McCain and others.
the US does n't have enough troops to really get the job done.
now more troops really should be added to the mix instead of withdrawing them.
Well I 've said that along the way.
I mean I 'll be real direct about it.
I 'd be surprised if we do n't increase the number of American troops coalition forces we have on the ground between now and the end of this year because we have got the referendum on the constitution coming up, we 've got the election of the Iraqi assembly hopefully in December.
Those are times when the terrorists are going to be looking to create havoc.
and we want to secure the country as well as we did in January.
So the number from a hundred thirty-nine may go up in the short term before it eventually starts to go down?
I would not be surprised if it did.
Look this leads to larger question just to mention briefly Wolf.
a bunch of us in Congress worry that the Army that we have today is not big enough and we 're stressing it and the people in it sending people back to Iraq two three times.
Um maybe I believe we do actually need uh uh an increase in the end strength of our Army so our commanders in the field will have the troops they need as the facts on the ground dictate.
All right let's move on.
we 'll get to that subject uh on another occasion the overall strength of the US military.
The war on terror Senator Kyl.
what about your estimate right now?
Is the US prepared for similar kinds of strikes that we have seen in recent days in London two series uh of attacks there as well as Sharm-el-Sheikh in Egypt?
Uh Wolf that's a question that has several different answers to it uh.
The first answer is we can never assure uh the people in America that they are totally protected from that kind of attack.
This country is wide open.
we enjoy our freedoms.
uh it is simply impossible to protect every single shopping center every single bus every single train or uh any other place where terrorists may wish to strike.
And they adjust their tactics in order to find out what we are protecting and therefore what they want to uh change to uh to attack a softer kind of target that is n't protected.
So our strategy is not only to do what we can in prioritizing protection of the homeland but frankly conducting offensive operations against the terrorists.
and that's where our emphasis should be.
That means uh a very good intelligence capability both abroad and in the United States.
That's what makes the Patriot Act so important.
But have you seen Senator Kyl a dramatic improvement in intelligence gathering human intelligence infiltrating these cells over the past few years on the part of the United States?
It's improved.
I would n't call it a dramatic improvement.
But it certainly is an improvement with things like the Patriot Act strengthening the FISA uh enforcement allowing the intelligence agencies and the FBI to talk to each other.
We have gone uh since nine eleven without an attack here in the United States.
We 've broken up cells.
We 've arrested people put them in jail.
We 've done the same abroad.
We 've thwarted uh literally well over a hundred attacks abroad with an aggressive intelligence operation.
So um the the war on terror is really a war with many fronts. The first and foremost uh among them being um trying to fight the enemy abroad and engaging in a significant intelligence operation to disrupt their ability to attack.
Yet Senator Lieberman there are still widespread reports that the US does n't have enough human assets spies that are penetrating some of these cells some of these al Qaeda related organizations does n't have enough native speakers in Arabic or other languages part of these groups.
Are you satisfied that there's been enough improvement since nine eleven?
No none of us should be satisfied.
I do n't think anybody on Capitol Hill or in the administration is satisfied.
We 're safer today than we were on nine eleven.
We have a homeland security department.
We have a recently reformed director of national intelligence.
but are we uh uh-
The key here as Jon Kyl said is intelligence.
Look what did the terrorist attacks in London and Egypt in the last couple of week tell us?
We are in a world war.
Uh we 're in a world war that Islamist terrorists declared against the rest of the world.
And the United States has been a target and surely will be again.
And we 've got to do more to improve our intelligence.
We 've got to do more to improve the security of our rail and transit systems.
Senator Collins Susan Collins and I are going to do hearings on that in the fall.
Let me bring Senator Kyl in and ask him this.
then I 'll ask you Senator Lieberman to weigh in as well uh.
A lot of the law enforcement authorities especially in New York City the police commissioner the mayor saying they 're not going to get involved in ethnic or racial or religious profiling whatsoever in dealing with potential threats to the trains the subways the buses.
Should there though be an element of that kind of profiling in dealing with these issues Senator Kyl?
There should be profiling.
but it should n't be based on religion or race.
Why not?
what's the answer that you give since most of these terrorists since nine eleven and even earlier have been Muslims have been Middle Eastern origin?
A lot of viewers are asking me why should n't there be this kind of religious or ethnic or racial profiling?
Because we care about the rights of our citizens and those who are visiting our country.
But when I say it should n't be based on race or religion I do n't mean to exclude appearance.
If we have a profile of some kind of killer in this society and frankly there's {a} rapist on the loose in Arizona right now and there is a picture that's been drawn by police uh artists of what this guy looks like. And anybody that has an appearance somewhat like him should expect to be profiled by the police here.
By the way he happens to be a young white male apparently.
But whatever the appearance of a potential terrorist is is fair game for profiling.
But uh first of all it should n't be based at all on their faith.
How do you know someone's faith when you see them?
And secondly in terms of uh ancestry or ethnicity that should simply be one uh of the factors of appearance that you profile.
I want to take a quick break.
but I want to let Senator Lieberman weigh in on this.
The argument is that law enforcement authorities transportation security authorities they 're spinning a lot of wheels wasting a lot of time examining grandmothers and babies and making people take off their shoes when they should be focusing in on real threats as opposed to potential random threats out there.
Uh the random threats are there.
And look we have an intelligence to say that uh uh the terrorists groups including al Qaeda may use people Europeans for instance who are uh not appearing to be uh from Arabic background.
But Jon Kyl has it right I think.
we 're at a point where I'm glad that the New York subway system is beginning to randomly search people getting out of the subways.
we 've been much too lax about rail and transit security.
We 've got to get to that.
and you know appearance and ethnicity ought to be one of the factors that law enforcement is allowed to consider.
Obviously if you 're wearing a heavy coat that's a telltale sign.
if you have a backpack on you ought {to} expect to be uh searched more frequently.
we ought to look at random use of magnetometers as people get into rail transit.
the enemy is out there.
they 're trying to kill us.
Now they have killed three thousand of us.
Uh we 've got to be as tough as possible to protect people's security.
All right I want both of you to stand by.
we have to take a quick break.
When we come back we 'll continue our conversation with Senators Lieberman and Kyl.
Up next though a quick check of what's in the news right now including some late breaking developments in the London terror investigation.
Late Edition will be right back.
Hello I'm Frederika Whitfield at the CNN center in Atlanta.
And now in the news we have some new developments to tell you about in the London terror investigation.
Sources tell CNN a suspect in Italian custody has told interrogators the failed attacks ten days ago were not linked to the deadly attacks earlier in the month.
The suspect Hussain Osmond also claims the July twenty-first group was not working for Al Queda.
And in southern England police have arrested six more suspects in the July twenty-first incident.
In Iraq there is no let up in the violence.
four US troops were killed last night by a road side bomb near Baghdad's airport.
Today just south of the Iraqi capital a road side bomb killed five people.
nearly a dozen others wounded in that attack.
For the crew of the space shuttle Discovery a mission extention.
NASA has decided to add an extra day so astronauts can do more work.
The return home is now set for a week from tomorrow.
NASA says engineers have determined that Discovery can safely return to earth as is because the cracked thermal tiles do not pose a safety hazzard.
I'm Frederika Whitfield in Atanta.
those are the headlines..
much more of Late Edition right after this.
Welcome back to Late Edition.
I'm Wolf Blitzer in Washington.
We 're continuing our conversation with Democratic Senator Joe Lieberman of Connecticut and Republican Senator John Kyl of Arizona.
Senator Lieberman is it a good idea for the President to give uh John Bolton what's called a recess appointment skirting the US Senate as the next US ambassador to the UN?
Uh it would have been a lot better idea for the administration to give the senators on the Foreign Relations Committee the information they said they needed and I think they were right uh before uh they could vote on the uh Bolton nomination.
Then we would have had an up or down vote.
and my guess is John Bolton would have been confirmed.
and he would have gone to the UN uh uh without a cloud over his head.
A recess appointment which I gather is coming for Bolton will send him there with a cloud over his head.
But look he will be our UN ambassador.
He 'll have the obvious uh authority of the President of the United States.
And I think we 've got to hope he does the best job he can in a tough time important time up there.
he would be Senator Kyl the first United States ambassador to the United Nations who did not get confirmation from the United States Senate.
Is that a problem?
Uh it would have been better had he been confirmed.
but uh under the circumstances everybody at the UN will know that he's the President's man.
Uh yeah he's a tough guy.
but I think they appreciate the fact that the President uh felt at this time in the UN's history when it could use a little tough love John Bolton is the kind of guy to do the job that the President wants done there.
Senator Lieberman uh based on what you know right now are you inclined to vote to uh confirm John Roberts as the next US associate justice of the Supreme Court?
Too early to say Wolf.
I think this is a nominee for whom the hearings before the Judiciary Committee are going to be real important.
but I 'd say this.
so far so good.
You know I was a member of the group of fourteen uh.
we got together to stop the so called nuclear option that Senator Frist was talking about.
But I think in a larger sense we were saying to the President Mr. President uh I hope you 'll send us someone who does n't blow the place up does n't create his own or her own sort of nuclear option.
uh and I think that the President has done that.
Some may vote against.
Uh but this is a clearly very very accomplished nominee.
And we have to know more about how he thinks on issues.
There are some conservatives uh Senator Kyl as you know who are a little concerned that he does n't have the paper trail on abortion rights issues on other issues that would make him more acceptable uh to you.
Who are you very pleased or moderately pleased with John Roberts?
I think he's an excellent nominee.
Uh frankly if there are people on the left or the right that are not sure how he's going to rule on a case that's fine by me.
He's a judge.
He's supposed to take the facts when they 're given to him apply the law and make a decision.
And I think he's the kind of person who based on his previous experience uh including his most recent experience as a judge on the court of appeals has demonstrated that he 'll do exactly that.
.
An excellent nominee.
Uh the Senate majority leader Bill Frist this week Senator Kyl came out in favor of an expanded version of stem cell research beyond what the President would like breaking with the President.
Are you influenced by what Senator Frist says?
Are you now about to go along with him?
Well I'm certainly influenced by what Senator Frist says because he's a respected physician.
He knows the subject very well.
Uh in this particular case I agree with his previous position and that of the President.
I 'll certainly listen to all of the debate and anything that Senator Frist Dr. Frist has to say.
but my own views reflect uh those of the President on this matter..
So you do n't have an open mind.
is that what you 're saying?
No. you know uh my father always used to say always have an open mind.
but remember there's a difference between an open mind and a hole in the head.
So I 'll apply my own judgment and be open-minded.
but again I have basic principles that I apply to decisions as well.
Senator Lieberman uh what about you?
Uh I 've been for more funding for stem cell research.
it's one of the most exciting uh medical developments of our age.
it could bring better treatments even cures for diseases that cause a lot of pain and death to millions of people.
I thought Bill Frist's uh statement this week took a lot of guts.
he changed a position he had.
but that's human nature.
and you 've got the confidence to do that.
Very significant.
I believe now that the Senate will pass the legislation that we 're talking about which is more funding for stem cell research on frozen embryos that are extra basically have been set aside for in-vitro fertilization.
I think we 're going to pass it by more than the two thirds required to overturn an expected presidential veto.
and it's really the right thing to do.
But that also has to pass in the House of Representatives where you may not have the votes.
You 're absolutely right.
so unfortunately the outcome is in doubt.
but a lot of lives are on the line here..
Senator Lieberman Senator Kyl I want to thank both of you for joining us.
always good to have you on Late Edition.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Coming up next, Discovery's astronauts are hard at work in space today.
but is the future of the US shuttle program in jeopardy?
We 'll get answers from deputy shuttle program manager Wayne Hale when Late Edition continues.
We were wrong.
and we missed something.
and uh we have to go figure out what it was and uh go fix it.
John Shannon the shuttle flight operations manager for NASA talking about the piece of foam that broke off the Discovery shuttle shortly after lift-off this past Tuesday.
That mishap prompted NASA to ground all future shuttle flights.
Still Discovery's mission the first US manned space trip since the Columbia shuttle explosion in two thousand three is being extended by one day.
Just a short while ago I spoke with shuttle program deputy manager Wayne Hale from the Johnson Space Center in Houston Texas.
Wayne Hale welcome to Late Edition.
thanks very much for joining us.
So I guess the key question on everyone's mind right now are those astronauts uh in danger upon their return to Earth?
good morning it's good to be here.
and the answer to that is of course they are.
Returning from Earth orbit, traveling twenty-five thousand uh feet per second seventeen thousand miles an hour, coming to a complete dead stop at a runway in Florida that is a hazardous operation.
The way we minimize the risk and maximize the safety for the crew is by thorough engineering analysis and review of every potential hazard.
And we are in the process of doing that.
And we believe that the crew will be as safe as normal coming back uh when we get ready to a week from today.
Are they in greater danger because of that miscalculation of that small piece of foam emerging upon lift-off?
Well the short answer is no.
That uh piece of foam missed the vehicle.
and any damage that might have occurred is uh hypothetical.
That is the problem that we have to solve for the next flight.
For this flight we understand what happened in terms of damage to the orbiter.
And we believe it will be safe to re-enter.
Is that a hundred percent sure now that they will return a week from tomorrow uh aboard the Discovery shuttle as opposed to some emergency procedure that might be required to bring them back?
We have maintained the emergency uh rescue vehicle on stand by.
and we will continue to do that for a couple more days until we have completed all our entry analysis.
At that time we 'll release the uh Atlantis for its normal processing for its next flight.
So as of right now we have not taken a rescue off the table.
but we think the probability is remote.
Listen to what a former NASA engineer Bob Dougherty said to our Miles O'Brien on Friday about the possibility of this rescue emergency vehicle being required.
I wrote a letter to the President telling him that we should n't have a full crew on this thing.
We should only fly four people because of situations like this.
That's what he said.
Well the rescue vehicle if it's required will have only four people on it.
We have provisions to bring back the entire seven person crew of Discovery if required in an emergency situation.
We certainly do n't think that's going to happen at this point.
But we 're holding that preparation um in readiness in case something changes.
how do you do that.
do you have to have the same rescue vehicle go back and do that twice.
is that what you 're saying?
No the uh rescue vehicle Atlantis is outfitted so that we launch it with a crew of four and we have seating for the full Discovery crew plus the four on the rescue vehicle.
We 'll be bringing home eleven persons if that became a necessary thing to do.
We 've made the accommodations.
we 've built the recumbant seats um and the other emergency provisions to bring back that larger crew on a single rescue flight if required.
How did this miscalculation happen?
You know we looked very hard at the foam on the pal ramp before flight.
We looked at it with uh X ray light machines.
We looked at it with a special uh high frequency radar type machine to look at any small voids or um areas where the glue that binds it to the uh substrate might have come loose.
Uh we did not see anything of significance.
So right now we are scratching our heads trying to understand what mechanism caused this piece of foam to come off.
It must be different than the uh mechanism that we had identified earlier uh and had done work on other areas to prevent uh foam loss from occurring.
So the engineers are going to have to take another look at this.
Uh we thought we understood what we had.
clearly we were wrong.
And more work is required.
The Los Angles Times had an editorial on Thursday that included a uh shocking line.
I just want to find out if it's true.
It said this.
The aged shuttle Discovery is twenty-one years old..
are already at more than twice their intended design life.
Engineers are sometimes reduced to hunting for obsolete hardware and electronics on Ebay.
Is that true?
Well the shuttle was designed for a hundred flights in ten years.
And uh the Discovery for example almost twenty years old has flown thirty times.
So in terms of length of time they are older than they were designed for.
But we have in fact upgraded areas.
We have ongoing programs to evaluate the effects of pure age on hardware.
This hardware is very well maintained.
We have uh environmentally controlled areas where we do all our work.
so we believe we understand the effect of aging on our equipment.
some of the ground test equipment that was designed in the late seventies or early eighties that has not been updated.
Occasionally they have had to go to some unusual places to find replacement parts.
but that's the ground equipment uh that we 're referring to not the flight equipment.
Including eBay?
uh I'm not sure exactly where they 've gone.
but they have told me they 've had to be very ingenious sometimes to find some of these older electronic parts.
We 're almost completely out of time.
but a quick question.
When do you believe if it happens the next shuttle will take off?
Well we are putting together a team that will go off and do an investigation uh and come up with the solution on this problem.
and I am very hopeful that the delay will be short.
Uh it's our intention to get to the bottom of this and fix it in a very rapid manner.
We have windows in September November December and uh then in February.
And uh I believe we 'll be flying in one of the near term windows.
But the point of the matter is we must understand what this problem was caused by this pal ramp foam loss problem and provide a solution to it because it's unacceptable to fly until we fix it.
Well good luck uh to all of NASA especially those astronauts on board the Discovery.
and we 'll be praying and hoping for the best.
Thanks very much Mr. Hale for joining us.
Thank you very much Wolf.
And do n't forget our Web question of the week should religion play a role in Iraq's new constitution.
you can cast your vote.
Go to CNN dot com slash late edition.
we 'll have the results in the next hour.
We 'll be right back.
There's much more ahead on Late Edition including Egypt's prime minister Akmed Alze the pressure for political reform inside his own country and much more.
Then a successful reign in terror in Great Britian.
We 'll assess the lingering threat uh in United States and around the world from three security experts.
Late Edition continues right at the top of the hour.