Sunday the interview with Bob Shapiro.
Newsnight returns to duo action tonight.
The co-hosts are Kira Phillips and Rick Sanchez.
that's Rick on the left Kira on the right.
and they are in Atlanta.
Double trouble.
watch for the dolphins Larry.
Carry on.
I'm told this guy in Miami saving is schula-esque your friend.
Yeah not this year though.
Well it might take a year.
Good to talk.
Go get them.
Bye.
Alright.
Thanks Larry.
Well tonight a Wal-Mart controversy.
Good evening I'm Kyra Phillips.
And I'm Rick Sanchez.
Newsnight begins right now.
Tonight every story has two sides.
In Wal-Mart's case both sides are being beamed onto big screens everywhere.
One point three million people in America have decided it's in their best self interest to work at Wal-Mart.
Now are they stupid?
No.
I keep saying you ca n't buy small town quality of life at a Wal-Mart because they do n't sell it.
But once they steal it from you you ca n't get it back at any price.
Attention shoppers.
is Wal-Mart's way the wave of the future?
And it's a case of dueling realities.
A city brimming with hope in some places devoid of it in others.
New Orleans a tale of two cities.
Also this man is a convicted murderer.
Why are there so many who want his life spared?
This is Newsnight.
And we begin tonight with Wal-Mart a place no doubt many of you are likely to shop.
When it comes to retail Wal-Mart is the biggest of the big.
and that makes it a big target as well.
Its corporate policies from buying cheap to selling cheap to providing jobs for tens of thousands of people while paying rock bottom salaries are also reasons it's a big target.
In fact right now Wal-Mart is the subject of not one but two documentaries about to be released one for one against.
Two stories one giant store here's a look.
You drive up all the way up to New York City on Route 80.
and you 'll see a Wal-Mart up on the hill.
and then you 'll drive farther into the town.
and you 'll see uh an empty town.
Just looks like a neutron bomb hit it.
It's an explosive documentary that alleges Wal-Mart has a take no prisoners business philosophy that is good for profits but bad for America.
They do n't get it.
When we start talking about quality reliance they start talking about cheap underwear.
At this point there's something I should tell you.
When you do a story on a film that's as critical of a company as this one is about Wal-Mart I want to talk to that company Wal-Mart to get their reaction.
Wal-Mart is not willing to go on camera.
But it did provide us with a written statement saying quote like any company we want to make sure our associates customers and local community feel good about us.
Wal-Mart makes life better for an awful lot of people by providing low prices and good jobs to those who need them.
However we 're the first to admit we 're not perfect and have worked hard to make substantive business changes in areas where we fall short.
Wal-Mart I think does n't do a good enough job telling its story.
So who is speaking up for Wal-Mart?
This man.
But uh Wal-Mart has closed some businesses down.
but it's created others.
In fact-
In fact Ron Galloway is not only speaking up for the retail giant.
he's also producing a documentary in their defense one that depicts Wal-Mart as an ingenious business plan that is good for America.
So many people have so many negative things to say about it.
but what about the positive things?
While Galloway's pro-Wal-Mart film introduces us to grateful employees-
Somebody did it for me at a time in my life when I was totally hopeless.
the anti-Wal-mart film points out that in two thousand one according to court documents workers made on average less than fourteen thousand dollars a year, that Wal-Mart's CEO made twenty-seven million dollars a year.
It also revealed that the owners of Wal-Mart the Walton family has an average net worth at or near one hundred billion dollars give or take a billion here or there depending on the price of their stock at the time.
Now as for the workers or associates as they 're called by Wal-Mart their average salary is below what the government considers the federal poverty line.
There were people I 'd see that did n't eat nothing.
they 'd take an hour lunch and just sit there.
This young mother that I talked to in LA was on Medi-Cal.
she got on the Wal-Mart plan.
she saw a doctor for the first time.
The anti-Wal-Mart film depicts Wal-Mart as consumed with keeping wages and benefits down and unions out by flying in executives and installing cameras to monitor employees as soon as there's a hint that workers may be organizing.
The retail giant gets most of its merchandise from outside the United States in places like Honduras and Bangladesh where according to the film workers make as little as fifteen cents an hour and work seven days a week.
but by far the largest provider of goods to Wal-Mart is China.
How much does Wal-Mart depend on China?
Company officials announced that in two thousand four they imported more than eighteen billion dollars in goods from the People's Republic.
I think Wal-Mart is a straw man for a set of issues that a certain group of people special interests groups have to deal with in American society.
Now this is important.
Officials making the anti uh Wal-Mart film say the film is not paid for with union dues.
We asked.
Also Galloway making the pro-Wal-Mart film tells me that he's received no money and little support in fact from Wal-Mart itself.
In fact Wal-Mart has no plans at this time to even carry his video in the stores.
Kyra?
Well whatever it does Wal-Mart always seems to be under a microscope.
Why?
Because a company that big that profitable is often imitated by other companies and that may well affect your benefits and your career.
Take health care for example.
A Wal-Mart internal memo recently leaked spelled out just how far the retail giant may be willing to go to keep its health costs low.
The question is will other companies follow suit and how might that affect you.
Here's CNN's Tom Foreman.
Out in the morning rush of Washington DC like six out of ten Americans Tim Kane gets health insurance through his job.
I think my hands are tied.
I have to go through my employers.
But as an economist at the conservative Heritage foundation Tim supports an idea that might put other commuters into shock.
Workplace health plans can be should be and may be going away.
Americans should understand that they would be much better off if businesses were n't providing them health care if they could buy it on the free market cheaply.
This is controversial stuff.
Wal-Mart with more than one point two million American workers is being criticized right now over a leaked company memo that suggests health care costs should be better contained.
Wal-Mart Watch is a new advocacy group funded in part by labor unions to keep an eye on how the economic giant is shaping American life.
I think that Wal-Mart today as we speak is attempting to change uh health care for the American worker to the worse.
And you 're saying that affects all of us whether or not we work for Wal-Mart.
When Wal-Mart makes a change in the way they do their business um then other businesses follow.
Wal-Mart told us in a written statement it is expanding and improving its health insurance program.
but it adds every business is asking the question how do we balance the genuine desire to provide the best benefits while remaining competitive in the global economy?
That's the catch.
The United States is a rarity among nations in firmly tying health insurance to jobs making it a cost of doing business.
So how did it get that way?
Blame it on World War Two when fear of inflation prompted President Roosevelt to freeze wages.
With so many Americans going to battle businesses were frantic for workers.
So instead of more money they offered health insurance.
Healthy employees are undeniably better for business better for society.
but is that Wal-Mart's responsibility?
Look.
this is a private company.
What business is it of yours how they do their business?
We the taxpayers are paying for Wal-Mart to profit.
um and so therefore we have a say.
And you believe that gives you a say.
We 're stockholders.
We 're shareholders in the company.
A study before Congress last year said less than half of Wal-Mart employees were fully covered by the company insurance and that a significant number secure their health care from publicly subsidized programs.
George Miller from California authored that report.
I do n't think that Wal-Mart either has built an acceptable system for real health care for employees and they have n't really provided much to the national debate on how we can accomplish this uh as a nation.
The debate over how workplace health insurance might fade and what might replace it is not just about Wal-Mart.
And Wal-Mart's trying to stay out of that mess.
and it's a very tricky problem.
But when a company that big even whispers change these days everyone listens.
That was CNN's Tom Foreman reporting.
Rick?
And we continue the theme now.
Andy Serwer works for us here at CNN and for Fortune Magazine.
Andy's one of the few journalists who's profiled the Walton family.
That's why he's the perfect guest to talk about Wal-Mart.
Andy thanks so much for being with us again.
Good to see you.
you know you wonder.
You know the Waltons.
At what level will this affect them?
They 're about to get hit with a whole lot of bad pub.
Well you know in some senses Rick they 're used to it by now.
I mean this is a company that's come under attack for really the past ten years in a big way from labor unions from people in small towns from people in big towns.
But this time it's going to be in churches.
it's going to be in small gathering places in middle America with people saying some pretty horrible things-
Do n't your feelings get hurt.
or are they at a different level if your employees come out and say I ca n't feed my kids.
I'm not making enough money.
you 're not giving me enough benefits.
you 're not paying me for my overtime work.
Well I think the Walton family does take it personally.
I mean their name is on the door.
Their father Sam Walton started this company.
They do n't like the bad publicity.
but they also feel wronged.
They do n't believe a lot of the charges are true.
and they are really starting to fight back.
And we 're seeing articles describing how they 've really rallied and brought tremendous efforts to bear opening up offices in Washington and state capitals.
They have a war room where they review all the criticism.
and they try to respond now.
But let me ask you this as I'm sure people at home are sitting there thinking right now about their own job.
if Wal-Mart is right and their model is right is this the way we 're going to go?
Will other workers feel like perhaps their compensation packages their wages are going to be perhaps either trimmed down or worse as they allude to in this documentary?
Well you 're talking about a race to the bottom in terms of compensation and benefits for American workers.
And you 're seeing this happening at Wal-Mart.
but you 're also seeing this happen at big manufacturing companies.
Do n't forget people at Delta people at GM people at Delphi are getting their wages and salaries cut too and that does n't have anything to do with Wal-Mart.
Having said that Wal-Mart is the biggest employer in the country.
so they 're sort of the benchmark company the company that other companies look to like GM in the past and like a US Steel.
So I think other companies are looking at what Wal-Mart is doing and saying you know, what is the new wage and pay scale in this country?
But Wal-Mart is really the king of the bottom line, are n't they?
They are.
They really know how to make things out of nothing.
and the person who's really benefiting is the consumer who goes in there and gets a sweater for four bucks.
Well and that's what they say Rick.
I mean one point three million Americans work at Wal-Mart.
A lot of people like working there.
We have to remember that.
I mean it's not all these people who work there are unhappy.
That's number one.
Number two the Wal-Mart people say look.
we 're paying people one point three million Americans.
but hundreds of millions of Americans are benefiting from low prices.
They 're able to buy a VCR they might not be able to buy because we 're keeping our costs low.
That's their response.
If their message is right why are n't they putting one of their big kahunas out there to talk to Rick Sanchez to talk to Andy and say look, this is all wrong?
Right now they 're not talking.
they 're not willing to go on camera.
Well they 're just starting to.
You have to remember this company was a very closed uh culture really founded by Sam Walton.
He passed away in nineteen ninety-two.
He did n't believe in talking to the press.
He did n't believe in PR.
He said all we need to do was open stores up and offer goods at low prices.
They 're starting to realize that they need to respond more and more.
So they 're just getting up to speed.
but I think you 're right.
They should get out there and tell their side of the story.
Is this going to be a big hit for them?
No I do n't think it is going to be a big hit because there 're other things out there.
You know there's a negative documentary film about Wal-Mart.
There's maybe a positive film out there as well.
They 're going to marshal their forces.
and they 're going to fight back.
and a lot of people like to shop at Wal-Mart.
I mean they would n't be a problem to some people if they were n't so successful.
People like to shop there.
Certainly do.
Time will tell.
Andy thanks so much for being with us.
You 're welcome Rick.
And there you have it.
Dueling documentaries out this month.
Still to come on Newsnight the Big Easy suddenly split in two how people in the same city are living different lives two months after Katrina.
We will take you there.
Plus he's a convicted killer a co-founder of a violent street gang.
Now he's on death row.
So why are so many people trying to save his life?
It is time now to check on some of the other stories that are happening tonight.
and for that we go to uh Erica Hill from Headline News.
Hello Erica.
Hey Rick good to see you.
We begin tonight in Iraq with a bloody end to the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.
Twenty-seven people killed in three separate attacks today.
The worst in a town forty-five miles south of Baghdad where a suicide bomber blew up a mini-bus in a busy shopping area.
Elsewhere a US soldier was killed in an attack near Balad.
and two Marines died in a helicopter crash near Ramadi.
Bagram Afghanistan now where a senior al-Qaeda operative is apparently on the loose.
Pentagon officials say Omar al-Farouq escaped from US custody back in July.
Al-Farouq had set up the first al-Qaeda camps in southeast Asia.
He was captured in Indonesia in two thousand two then turned over to US officials who brought him to Afghanistan.
In Detroit Michigan thousands paying tribute today at the funeral of Rosa Parks.
Many prominent figures were in attendance including the Reverends Jesse Jackson and Al Sharpton as well as former President Bill Clinton.
Parks inspired the Civil Rights movement of course when she refused to give up her seat on a bus to a white man in nineteen fifty-five.
She died last week at the age of ninety-two.
And in Los Angeles a massive protest against the Bush administration shuts down parts of the city.
The afternoon and evening demonstrations organized by the group The World Ca n't Wait led police to close many streets around a federal building in West LA.
There were some confrontations with police.
One officer's uniform caught fire after a molotov cocktail was thrown his way.
Quite the demonstration there Rick.
Certainly looks like it.
Erica thanks so much.
We 'll look for you in just a little bit.
Kyra?
Well for more than two months we 've seen the havoc that Mother Nature can cause.
We 've watched from our homes Katrina's destructive force and people struggling in its aftermath.
Even now it's impossible to grasp the tragedy along the Gulf Coast.
There are so many parts to it.
So tonight CNN's Dan Simon shows us a different angle a new divide forming in the Big Easy.
It was the best of times.
it was the worst of times.
the famous words of Charles Dickens in A Tale of Two Cities.
Here in New Orleans that nineteenth century text resonates as it feels literally like two cities have emerged since Hurricane Katrina one filled with anger and desperation-
Nobody's trying to help.
Nobody's trying to do nothing.
But here across the river on what locals call the West Bank they have different problems the kind you do n't mind having like where to get coffee or go shopping.
Here it's about progress and optimism.
The biggest complaint we have is we never know when the garbage is being picked up.
Big deal right?
Yeah.
I mean you know so it's all relative.
Don and Joy Paolo live across the river from the devastation in a place called Algiers Point.
We found the retired couple relaxing on their porch.
Play on words.
this is the West Bank.
but people here call it the blessed bank.
The Paolos bounced back quickly after evacuating to Ohio.
While they came back to mold and a busted heater their problems seem miniscule.
One of the biggest problems we have over here truthfully is traffic.
There is no traffic in other parts of town.
This is the devastated Lower Ninth Ward.
Restaurants gas stations closed.
neighborhoods vacant filled with trash.
Contrast that with Algiers where carved pumpkins dot the landscape and most of the stores even little cafes are open for business.
We just isolated.
We like on a island over here.
We isolated from the whole city.
Daisy Peters's feelings are understandable, her house in ruins.
Other than the help of a few family members clearing away debris she's on her own.
I am very very very disgusted with this place.
Who are you disgusted with?
The governor and the mayor and FEMA and all of them.
You feel like they just do n't care.
I feel like they do not care.
Government officials say they do care.
but the magnitude of destruction makes rebuilding very difficult.
There's no drinkable water and little if any electricity here and no plan yet for restoring the neighborhood.
I'm not giving this house away.
If somebody they do n't want to rebuild down here somebody need to see me about this house because I'm not giving it to nobody.
Daisy decides to take a rest.
They 're also resting at the Paolo house but in a different way.
Dan Simon CNN New Orleans.
Whether you 've lost your entire home or just a few things a loss hurts.
and one of our own here at CNN has felt the pain of Katrina.
American Morning executive producer Kim Bondy has a house in New Orleans.
American Morning anchor Miles O'Brien was with Kim today as she got some expert opinions on the damage to her home.
This room was an addition to the house.
It originally had paneling.
and then when I bought the house in two thousand and one I had new walls put in.
So this is all new drywall in here.
So the mold growth is pretty substantial.
The sunroom at Kim Bondy's house in New Orleans sure could use a little sun.
Perhaps it might bake away the multilayered mold that covers the walls and fouls the air.
You 've got so much moisture in here.
you know so much damage.
the mold just feeds off of itself.
Kim invited veteran property restoration expert Rusty Amarante to tour her once upon a dream home which sat in standing fetid water for two and a half weeks after the levees broke.
Not a pretty picture.
but Rusty Amarante has seen it all before.
Would you recommend that a room like this be sort of torn down and start all over?
I do n't think you need to tear it down.
I think you need to thoroughly gut it.
You need to take out.
Gutting a house, stripping it to the bones like a Thanksgiving turkey seems like a bitter pill for the average homeowner.
but Rusty has a way of putting things in perspective.
Really you 're just talking about redoing the interior building envelope here.
So uh as devastating as it is you 're really kind of fortunate because once you take out the plaster, once you take out the insulation make sure that the inside of the building is dry uh the foundation is dry you can really start the rebuilding process.
And.
But what about the structure of the house?
Any osteoporosis in those bones?
From what I can see of the brick from the outside it looks very solid.
For some answers Kim called in another expert Elizabeth English a professor who studies how buildings weather hurricanes.
Crawl space.
Crawl space.
I 've never even looked underneath there.
But Elizabeth did.
and it looks pretty good.
Still a little damp down here.
and that needs to dry out.
Mhm.
But um you know you do n't have a problem with rot at this point.
It was a cursory inspection a few pokes and peeks.
This is very good solid construction here.
But enough to make Elizabeth a big believer in the Bondy bungalow.
If this were your house what would you do?
I 'd fix it up.
Yeah?
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
This house is not a goner.
Uh this house can be uh repaired uh and brought back to life.
and it's bringing the individual houses back to life that 'll bring the neighborhood back to life.
and bringing New Orleans ' neighborhoods back to life is what will bring the city back to life.
Miles O'Brien CNN New Orleans hm.
And you can catch American Morning's Miles O'Brien and Soledad O'Brien every morning on American Morning beginning at seven am eastern.
and you know just watching that piece I talked to friends of mine living in New Orleans saying they 're getting contractors to come out and give them estimates.
One friend had three contractors come out.
and the difference in prices.
Yeah it's amazing.
.
it is amazing.
You 've got to be really careful who you pick to take on the job.
The waters have receded.
but the problems have yeah.
Keep rising.
Tonight on Newsnight politics makes strange bedfellows.
Would you believe that some liberal Democrats might support President Bush's Supreme Court Nominee Samuel Alito?
We 're going to explain this one to you.
And why are so many people trying to keep a convicted killer from getting the death penalty?
That story straight ahead.
Ever since uh President Bush said the name Samuel Alito we have been hearing from both extremes of the political spectrum.
The far right loves the Supreme Court nominee as you might imagine.
The far left ca n't stand him.
We 're learning though that some Democrats liberal Democrats are willing to give Alito a chance.
CNN senior political correspondent Candy Crowley explains.
Meet Jeffrey Wasserstein former law clerk for Judge Sam Alito.
I think you look at the totality of his career and what you see is a judge squarely within the mainstream.
Wasserstein is a liberal Democrat except when he votes Green party.
and he is not alone.
He's hired liberals conservatives libertarians independents um.
and all I know is that we 're all unanimously supporting the judge in his nomination.
The kind of testimony that may make it easier for people like Senator Ben Nelson the third Democrat to get an up-close and personal look at the President's Supreme Court nominee.
A Democrat from Nebraska a state that went Bush in oh four Nelson is one of five red state Democrats up for reelection in oh six who would rather vote than fight.
I just hope that we 're able to work our way through uh and make an up or down decision on this judge.
He's not even a member of the Judiciary Committee.
but Nelson and other Democrats are targets of opportunity for the White House which hopes to pad Republican support for Alito with enough Democrats to discourage and if needed defeat a filibuster.
No no no.
Alito will not save Roe.
Here's the Democrats ' problem.
The party's base support liberal women's groups civil rights groups environmental groups the footsoldiers that raise money knock on doors and vote come rain or shine want to fight over Alito.
An argument that finds sympathy in blue state Democrats like Illinois's Dick Durbin.
It could tip the balance for a generation in another direction on critical issues women's rights and workers ' rights the right of privacy uh protecting the environment human rights civil rights.
All of these things are at stake in this nomination.
The filibuster fight to please Democratic activists could alienate the kind of centrists who vote for both George Bush and Ben Nelson in the same state which is why the word filibuster makes Ben Nelson dance.
You know the word filibuster keeps coming up in the questions rather than in the answers.
but you do n't rule it out.
but nobody's ruling it in.
While Democrats still hold out the possibility of a filibuster the competing need to please the base and reach to the center makes it hard to find consensus all of which could bode well for Sam Alito who may get by with a little help from his friends.
There was never an ideological or political consideration in how he viewed cases.
So a judge's judge.
Judge's judge.
Absolutely.
Candy Crowley CNN Washington.
The founder of one of the nation's most notorious street gangs is facing a death penalty.
Coming up, who's trying to save his life and why?
Also the survivors of that massive South Asian earthquake are facing a new and even deadlier if you can believe it threat.
From around the world this is Newsnight.
In a few weeks the state of California is planning to execute Tookie Williams the man who co-founded one of the country's most notorious street gangs.
You may have heard of the Crips or seen them portrayed in the movies.
Well Williams is a convicted killer.
but people all over the country are trying to save his life.
CNN's Chris Lawrence looks into why.
.
Actor Jamie Foxx is asking California's governor to spare the life of the man he played on screen.
I never back down never.
Stanley Tookie Williams co-founded the Crips street gang.
He robbed and murdered and was convicted of his crimes in nineteen eighty-one.
But from his cell on death row Williams spent years writing children's books and preaching against gang violence.
And if he dies some people are not going to have the opportunity to learn from his mistakes.
Edgar Medina read the books and says Williams convinced him to stay in school.
If I would have been in a gang right now I would 've probably be in jail dead.
Instead he's fifteen on track to graduate and go to college.
I heard one report where they say he saved a hundred fifty thousand kids from joining gangs.
That's absurd.
How do you know that?
Retired sergeant Wes McBride worked the gang detail for twenty-six years in LA County.
It's not against the law to be a gang member.
It's against the law to kill people.
and that's what he's convicted of.
A witness says Williams robbed and executed a Seven Eleven employee then made fun of the man as he died.
He was also convicted of gunning down an entire family father mother and daughter.
Writing a few books does n't exonerate you from your crimes.
In Williams ' case it wo n't.
On December thirteenth he's scheduled to die.
I am at this time signing a warrant of execution.
Williams ' books are a part of his legacy.
so are the Crips.
In thirty years the gang has spread from California to just about every state in the country.
Fred Jackson works with kids who grow up surrounded by gangs.
He says they really listen to Williams do n't tune him out like cops or counselors.
To kill Stan will be throwing the baby out with the bath water.
Jackson says executing Williams sends the wrong message.
You would be telling gang members or those wannabe gang members do n't care how you turn your life around.
once you are stuck you are stuck.
No condemned murderer has been granted clemency in California since nineteen sixty-seven.
The odds are against any man even one like Tookie Williams who was nominated for a Nobel Peace prize.
But he did n't win it.
You know and even if he did does that mean uh you 're forgiven for murdering a whole family?
No I do n't think so.
Like his life Tookie Williams ' legacy will be complicated.
Chris Lawrence CNN Los Angeles.
Well among those who believe Tookie Williams ' life should be spared is Lewis Yablonsky a criminologist expert in gang behavior and author of the book Gangsters.
He joins us now live.
Sir let me ask you why do you think Tookie should not die?
Well I 've been studying gangs for fifty years.
and we 're always looking for solutions.
Uh here's a man who has changed his lifestyle.
I 've read all his books.
He was significant in contributing some theories to my book uh Gangsters.
and I think he can be a positive force in uh turning around young gangsters.
In fact there 're several programs in the California Department of uh Corrections where uh ex-offenders some lifers are working with young offenders very effectively.
Uh the Amity program uh in several prisons Phoenix program in several prisons.
and uh I 've seen uh the impact of lifers individuals who are what I would refer to as experienced therapists.
These are individuals who 've been there like Tookie.
They 've gone through a transformation as he has over a period of twenty years.
and they can have a real impact on some of the younger offenders to not go down their path and end up uh being executed.
Well you know he writes in his memoir it was u-ha--
He says daily he spent studying and questioning uh and soulsearching.
He said he began to develop a sense of critical reasoning from which sprang the first stirring of +conscience.
This was the moment when redemption infused itself into my life.
You read this writing.
and you think wow this is somebody who killed three people?
Do you believe that murderers can be reformed?
Is this man healthy?
If he were to walk the streets again would he never kill again?
we 're not talking about letting him out of prison.
We 're talking about clemency to give him life without parole where we do n't kill him.
And I have already made some uh efforts to put him into a particular program where he would uh be effective.
One of the major gang problems uh of the insanity of gang problems is young black men killing young black men and Hispanic kids killing Hispanic kids.
He talks a lot about black on black crime.
Tookie-
Right.
And Tookie has come up with some interesting observations about why this goes on as-
Uh they 're good enough to put in my theoretical book on gangsters.
and I think he could be very effective in a program.
and as I 've indicated I 've already talked to the director uh of a program in the California prison system.
And if Governor Schwarzenegger really means what he says about uh the California Department of Corrections with emphasis on corrections and rehabilitation he should spare his life.
But-
He's really the only one who can do it.
and as I 've-
Well Lewis let me ask you.
let's say he is granted clemency.
what do you say to the victims ' families?
Well we talk about redemption.
We talk about forgiveness.
Let's put it this way.
Uh twenty-five years ago I was a different person than I am now.
I think Tookie Williams from my communications with him is a different person today than when we was convicted of these crimes.
I'm not uh excusing the crimes.
and I'm not necessarily uh against the death penalty.
Uh some individuals perhaps should get the death penalty.
but this is a man who can contribute to our society.
and he can be effective.
I know how police officers feel about it.
but-
I know.
and you 've been studying this for more than thirty years.
Lewis Yablonsky uh I thank you sir so much for your time.
And we talked about family members.
and Lora Owens is the stepmother of Albert Owens the convenience store worker that Tookie Williams was convicted of killing.
She joins us now by phone.
and I appreciate your time Lora.
I want to take a moment to talk about Albert if you do n't mind and just uh remind us about his life.
Okay.
Go ahead Lora.
Thank you for having me on.
I appreciate the opportunity to be able to even speak about Albert.
He seems to be the forgotten one.
Unfortunately the Owens family studied gangs specifically the gang that Williams had because it affected our life.
Do you have any idea the impact that it has had on the Owens family?
See the picture of my son?
We see him.
That's a man that went out.
he wanted to make an honest living where Williams goes out to take whatever he wants.
Now we have a major impact.
Life's different now because of what Williams did to the Owens family.
Life's a lot different.
I do n't have to study gangs.
I only have to study what Williams did.
Is death-
A big difference.
Lora is death the answer?
Does Tookie Williams need to die?
Is that what would make you feel better would make your family feel better?
It's called closure Miss Phillips.
That's what it's called because when someone like Williams can do all of these things-
what has he paid?
He does n't even say he's guilty.
He says he's innocent.
Alright so you have to do that with all of the appeals.
He says he's sorry.
For what.
that he did n't get away with it?
He could do so much to stop gangs.
He-
Is he?
No he does n't do any of that.
What he does is find somebody who's willing to write for him somebody who's out there with the cause.
Williams is n't the important one in this right to life cause.
It's the fact that it is a cause.
and he's got all of these people behind him.
They have n't walked where the Owens family has walked.
They have n't had to take someone who's been murdered and try and build a life without them.
Lora Tookie has this apology uh that he has written that of course he wants everybody to hear.
Part of it says I pray that one day my apology will be accepted.
I also pray that your suffering caused by gang violence will soon come to an end as more gang members wake up and stop hurting themselves and others.
I vow to spend the rest of my life working toward solutions.
Does that give you any sense of peace?
He did n't write it to us.
That's not who he wrote that to.
He wrote that to further his gang connections.
That's who he's writing that to.
He did n't write that to the Owens family.
Lora Owens stepmother of Albert Owens we sure appreciate your time.
I know this is a difficult uh period for you and your family.
Um thank you Lora.
Thank you very much.
Well different perspective.
We brought you the tale of two cities.
and now we bring you a tale of two families.
And it 'll be interesting to see what happens.
There are a lot of people protesting and a lot of people that uh want to see him die.
Still ahead on Newsnight winter is coming to the mountains of Pakistan.
Will millions of those who survived last month's massive earthquake now succumb to something else bitter cold?
Also-
The city of lights is aflame with torched cars.
A frightening week of violence continues in Paris.
Newsnight will return.
Here's a follow-up.
High in the Himalaya Mountains tragedy is ready to strike once again.
First it came in the form of a massive earthquake.
Soon though it may be the freezing temperatures and the snow of a bitter winter that's going to take a terrible toll.
The number's already brutal.
Death toll eighty thousand by some counts and climbing.
Another eight hundred thousand without shelter.
not even a tent in some cases.
More than two million in need of food.
Many in mountain regions where relief trucks or even helicopters ca n't seem to get to.
Now ITV's Bill Neely reports.
that's just from the Kashmir region.
that's the area right between India and Pakistan.
The helicopters are still busy here.
but the weather is worsening.
There are days they wo n't fly and places they wo n't go.
Into one of these today came Save the Children driving a convoy of two hundred tents six thousand feet up into one of Kashmir's most remote corners.
There waiting hundreds of villagers.
this aid the difference between life and death.
One man at least has suffered enough death.
Is seven kids one mom and one wife.
He lost his seven children.
Seven children.
He lost his seven childrens plus eh his wife and eh his mom.
Even the blind walked for hours across a mountain to get here.
The tents blankets and clothes their only protection against a brutal winter.
It's a race here against time and against the heavy snows that are on their way.
In about two weeks time these mountains and this valley will be covered in snow.
and the logic of survival then is brutally simple.
Anyone without shelter will die.
The problem is there are n't enough tents here or anywhere else.
so a second disaster that the UN says could kill thousands is n't just looming.
it's highly likely.
These children survived the earthquake.
Twenty thousand did n't.
The coming cold and hunger could carry off thousands more.
So they struggle away with their tents.
and even the aid workers who 've been through the tsunami struggle to cope here.
Logistically it's the worst without a doubt.
It's getting high in mountains.
The road that we came up now is pretty perilous to say the least.
but we could get vehicles up.
We 're talking about a lot of places have got no vehicular access whatsoever.
Then we 're talking meal trains and helicopters.
and we 're really running out of time.
It's quite a serious situation.
the tsunami was much easier to deal with than this?
The tsunami did n't have winter coming.
I mean here we 've just got this hammer blow that's going to come down very very shortly.
The first disaster was an act of god.
A second can be prevented by time.
and aid money is running out.
As we left night fell.
and the first snow fell too.
It did n't settle.
but it will soon.
Pakistan's mountain people are braced for another terrible test.
Bill Neely ITV News Naganari Kashmir.
Well in a moment how sweet it is on the rise.
but first we turn to Erica Hill in Atlanta with some other stories making headlines right now.
Hi Erica.
Hey Kyra good to see you tonight.
We start off with a question many are asking tonight.
could there have been a way out of the Iraq war before it started?
A senior official from the United Arab Emirates tells CNN Saddam Hussein was ready to accept exile there to avoid war but then just days before war broke out, Saddam's demands were not met and the deal fell through.
In the troubled suburbs of Paris a seventh straight night of violence sparked by the accidental death of two teens.
About one hundred eighty cars have been torched at this point.
Police are hesitant to venture into the largely African and Muslim neighborhoods.
but they have fired rubber bullets and tear gas at gangs of young people throwing stones.
And finally tonight the world famous New York City Rockettes not kicking up their heels tonight.
The precision dancers walked off the job at an evening dress rehearsal for the annual Christmas spectacular to support striking musicians.
No word on whether or not they walked off in step.
Oh have you seen those costumes by the way?
They 're amazing.
Oh I had to interview two of these beautiful women.
and first of all they 're like six two.
and the feathers are taller than fitting into this box.
And heavy.
Ew.
Exactly.
I do n't think I can be a showgirl.
I ca n't pull it off.
No you stick with what you 're doing.
Thank you Erica.
You two stop.
Thanks Kyra.
Still to come on Newsnight a sweeter than average story much much sweeter as we belly up to the bar the candy bar.
Do n't get any ideas Rick.
Got it.
Got it.
With Halloween on our minds you know what we thought of.
We thought of Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory.
Duh dad as my daughter would say.
To Dylan Lauren though who inherited a business smarts from her father that would be Ralph Lauren the film was a big screen candy coated business plan.
That's why she as you 'll see is now on the rise.
Hi I'm Dylan Lauren.
And I am a candy lover.
So I decided to take my passion and create the world's largest candy store and fill it with candy and anything candy related.
That's what Dylan the Candy Bar is.
It's an homage to candy.
I was inspired when I was younger by uh Charlie and the Chocolate Factory.
And it's a bunch of stores that have a sort of entertainment philosophy.
And I just thought there's not anything like that in the candy business that you know-
FAO Schwartz had it with toys.
or Niketown has it with sneakers.
I thought would n't it be fun for even me who's a candy freak to just walk in and have this like oversized emporium of oversized lollipops.
I have four stores at the moment.
I'm hoping to open a good twenty more.
The flagship's in New York City.
The other Dylan's Candy Bars are in Houston Orlando and Roosevelt Field.
Well this is my office.
I 've always loved candy.
At first it was about the taste.
I love gummy bears and gummy fish.
I just always started to look at candy's packaging.
And as an art history major I also was influenced by a lot of pop artists.
This is our stripe which are on our bags and our logos.
I really loved art and candy.
Did you like the ones that we were talking about for the malls though?
Our theme is to basically merge pop culture art fashion with candy and also to have like the largest assortment of colors and flavors.
This is our body uh shake.
It's a milk bubble bath chocolate.
We do n't just carry candy per se to eat.
We have a spa product like chocolate bath powders and vanilla body moisturizers.
We 're expanding into um our own Dylan's Candy Bars spa line.
Our customer is really the kid in the adult.
and it's anyone.
I think the candy store brings out the kid in everyone.
And I definitely am.
I do n't know.
people do n't know how old I am.
People think I'm fifteen because I love candy and I love colors.
But I have a mature sensibility about it too.
But I think you have to have the sort of attitude of creativity and fun and anything is possible.
Coming up a special hour of Newsnight winning the war on terror how other nations are fighting terrorism and what we in the US are learning from them.
This is Newsnight.