If they decide to make it a centerpiece we 'll know it when we see it.
What Bush is trying to do is not run as Tom Cruise anymore not run as Top Gun because that's not going to work anymore.
I think he's trying to run as Jack Bauer you know on domestic security.
If it's going to be nationalized on the Republicans ' terms they want it to be about domestic security about the Patriot Act about the surveillance of terrorists et cetera.
Is n't it wonderful to see how Democrats are so clear cut on issues like abortion rights?
We 're for them.
No complications.
Yeah right right.
War in Iraq.
well I do n't know.
Let me ask you about two thousand and eight.
One of the guys I"m watching is a dark horse.
And I do n't think he would have passed muster at the Memphis meeting we were covering because he was so culturally conservative.
Is the guy I believe who would win if we did n't have political parties.
If we did n't have a Democratic party and we did n't have a Republican party, if we just had a big boat I think Giuliani would be unstoppable because he's a big city guy you know.
And he's a guy that's dealt with horror.
And he's tough on crime.
And he's smart.
And he's with most people on the social issues.
Well I happen to think that the way Karl Rove and George Bush are trying to redefine the issue which is about domestic security-
They do n't want to talk about the war because the war's a mess.
They want to talk about protecting the homeland.
The natural inheritor of that definition of the presidency-
The Jack Bauer-
Is Winston Giuliani Churchill.
the Jack Bauer figure in other words from twenty four is Rudy Giuliani.
Right.
The big city mayor the crime fighter BUT pro-choice pro-gun-control pro-gay-rights.
BUT. gang landlord.
You name it.
Married three times.
Yeah it may just be too much.
Plus he's got a lot of business interest that he's making a lot of money at.
And there's some people who think he's doing this as a loss leader.
He's keeping his name in circulation as a loss leader.
I do n't think so.
I think he's waiting to see if there's a moment.
I think he's waiting to see whether John McCain can make the distance.
If he ca n't he's going in.
By the way he's the most imperfect candidate by that accounting I agree and also the most perfect.
What a wonderful combination.
He's powerful at any audience Republican Democrat or otherwise.
Biggest audiences in the country this guy draws.
Thank you Howard.
I'm scared that we agree.
Join us again tomorrow night at five and seven eastern for the hardball hot shot.
It's always fun on Friday night here.
Right now it's time for the Abrams report with Dan.
Coming up, bar bouncer Darryl Littlejohn pleads not guilty to murdering grad student Imette St. Guillen. And says on camera the authorities have the wrong guy.
The program about justice starts now.
Just hours ago this man was arraigned for the brutal murder of graduate student Imette St. Guillen.
Hi everyone.
First up on the docket bouncer Darryl Littlejohn pleaded not guilty to charges he murdered twenty four year old Guillen.
She was found strangled and wrapped in tape.
This was just a day after Littlejohn spoke out for the first time telling WCBS in New York that police have got the wrong guy.
Not knowing this woman personally or anything you know from the little bit that I 've been told about her she was a brilliant person.
And she was going on with her life you know to become somebody in this world.
And The family has to be devastated.
I mean I'm truly sorry what happened to this young lady.
but they have the wrong person.
uh We 're going to play more of that interview.
But joining me now New York Sun columnist David Golden who was at the arraignment today.
All right.
so David set the scene for us.
Well at about two fifteen this afternoon in a packed ceremonial courtroom in Brooklyn court with Imette's sister and mother sitting in the front row and dozens of reporters watching Mr. Littlejohn walked in.
He was shackled.
He did not say a word throughout the entire hearing.
But his attorney entered the plea for him of not guilty.
Three charges here.
One count of first degree murder.
To convict on that a jury would have to find that in the course of killing Imette Mr. Littlejohn committed some sort of sex crime also.
To protect themselves prosecutors have added two second degree murder charges that do not require a sex crime to have taken place.
Earlier in the day Police Commissioner Ray Kelly and Brooklyn District Attorney Joe Hines laid out some of the evidence in the case in addition Dan to what we 'd heard before Which was the cops had cell phone records placing Mr. Littlejohn in the area where Imette's body was found Witnesses saying that Mr. Littlejohn left the Falls bar with Imette And blood of Mr. Littlejohn's apparently on the ties that were binding together Imette's hands.
He heard two new pieces of forensic evidence today.
From Mr. Littlejohn's diverse wardrobe apparently cops say they found hairs matching two of his jackets on the tape that was wrapping Imette's face and also on the blanket that was wrapping her body.
you say diverse wardrobe.
you know you 're talking about some weird mink coats and stuff, right?
There's like some sort of rabbit coat or something?
There was a rabbit coat and a mink coat.
And fibers from those coats were apparently found on both the tape as I said and also on the blanket that her body was found in.
That's the extent at this point of the evidence that police say they have. Although they pointed out that they 've gone through forensically twenty percent of the evidence that they have collected.
Still waiting on they say plenty more evidence that's undergoing tests.
All right I'm going to ask you about um any eye contact interaction uh between the family members and Darryl Littlejohn in a moment.
But first here's a little bit of sound from outside of court.
First we 've got Imette's sister Alexandra and then Kevin O'Donnell uh Littlejohn's attorney.
This again only hours ago.
Imette was a good person a kind person.
Her heart was full of love a love she willingly shared with friends and family.
She had a passion for life and a thirst for seeing the world and learning new things.
With Imette's death the world has lost something special far too soon.
My heart and prayers go out to the family of Imette St. Guillen.
I ca n't imagine what they 're going through.
And they have my word that I will not put her on trial here.
I will treat her with the same dignity that she lived her life with.
We 'll see about that.
But uh David any interaction between the the families and Littlejohn in court?
None whatsoever.
They were on opposite sides of the courtroom.
On the right side facing in at the defense table Mr. Littlejohn sat.
As I said he was shackled the whole time.
he stared forward in a gray jumpsuit that was clearly the prison garb he was issued apparently.
Maybe it was his own clothes.
We do n't know.
He just sat there staring forward.
On the opposite side of the courtroom sitting with some other family and friends in the front row Alexandra St. Guillen had her arm around her mother.
Her mother was wearing those sunglasses in court that you just saw her wearing just now.
They were staring straight ahead as well.
Very very little spoken between them.
At one point Ms. St. Guillen the while the judge and the various lawyers were discussing future court dates was asking something about what was going on.
All right all right.
But that was it.
All right.
uh Davidson stick around uh because I'm going to get to our panel in a minute.
You 'll join us.
But over the last twenty four hours a sort of war of words has erupted between the police and that man officially charged with Imette's murder.
This focus should n't really be on me.
It should be on them finding who is really responsible for this young lady's you know tragic death.
Imette's hands and feet were bound and her mouth gagged with a white athletic sock.
She had been sexually abused and asphyxiated.
Plastic packing tape covered her eyes her nose and her mouth.
Imette was last seen leaving the Falls bar with Darryl Littlejohn.
Did you see Imette St. Guillen leave the bar?
At the end of the night yes.
Okay um.
Just before closing.
Did somebody ask you to escort her out?
Yes it was close to closing time.
All the other patrons had left the bar.
and I was asked to escort her.
Did you do that?
Yes.
That's normal.
upon closing time the stragglers or whoever is remaining behind they have to be off the premises by four AM.
or the bar gets fined.
So yes that's normal.
When police were questioning you did you volunteer to give your DNA?
Yes I did.
And you gave it?
Yes.
There was never a question about me consenting to give my DNA.
When they first approached me at the Falls I provided them with my real name my real address social security number birth date so on and so forth.
A DNA match was made with Littlejohn's blood on the plastic ties that bound her hands.
Red polyester rug fibers from carpeting in Littlejohn's residence along with brown mink hair from a jacket in his residence and blue rabbit hair from a jacket collar in his residence were consistent with rug fibers mink and rabbit hair that were found on the tapes used on Imette's head in the blanket in which her body was found and in the Winstar van used by Littlejohn.
I'm a likely suspect because I have a criminal background and I was n't supposed to be there working.
A cell phone used exclusively by Littlejohn had been in close proximity to where her body was found.
His phone was used there at seven thirty one PM less than an hour before the body was reported by the nine one one call.
Further a witness said he saw a van that matched the description of the one used by Littlejohn making a u-turn at about seven thirty PM at the place Imette's body was found.
Finally there are no witnesses or other evidence to support Littlejohn's claim that he visited his mother in a nursing home on the day Imette was killed.
Did you kill Imette St. Guillen?
No I did not.
Another problem of course is that he told the Daily News reporter that he hardly even remembered Imette being there and now he's saying oh yeah I walked her out.
Joining us now former prosecutor Gail Abramson and criminal defense attorney uh Janna Spillbore.
All right so Janna look this defense attorney is out there uh you know talking a big game Basically saying I 've got a solid defense here.
uh he took the subway home.
he had nothing to do with this et cetera.
Yeah and what's wrong with that?
He's going to present the uh some other dude defense did it.
And that could work in this case Dan because we do n't have a lot of solid evidence yet linking Littlejohn to Imette St. Guillen's rape or her murder.
Well you mean you 're ignoring all the evidence that Ray Kelly's explaining?
No you know what.
because that evidence is weak at best.
I mean you could have an alternate explanation for all of that.
The fibers transference that's easy.
I mean it is.
Oh yeah.
No but listen.
if the theory is that she was raped and killed why is n't Littlejohn's DNA all over her body?
We have no semen.
We have no evidence of rape.
I'm sorry.
have you not been involved in any cases where there were rapes where there was no semen?
eh It's highly unlikely Dan.
Oh really?
Yeah.
I mean you know I'm not actually going to claim that the rapist was polite and used a condom.
and I do n't think that was the case.
Hold on.
I.
Is there any evidence of that?
No.
So uh at worst we might have a couple of people involved in this crime.
But we have no evidence that this guy raped her.
The theory is rape and murder.
All right I know..
but Gail this is what defense attorneys do.
They change the subject.
they start saying aha prove the rape prove the rape.
Exactly.
And they 're-
Even the prosecutors are suggesting well you know what.
we have alternate theories here where it sounds like they 're not even a hundred percent certain they can prove the rape.
And here's the thing Dan.
Janna with all due respect this is-
We 're talking about a career criminal who knows about DNA who knows about criminal evidence who probably has been tried-
But not a career rapist.
Well rape can be an crime of opportunity.
And there has been many many many career criminals who do not have rape on their rap sheet until they have an opportunity to rape someone.
He could have used a condom.
In addition Charles Heinz the district attorney came out today saying that they 're only twenty per cent through analyzing the physical evidence.
And they 're also concerned-
They have not said-
Wait Gail.
they were also concerned that other cases which they think that Littlejohn might be linked to were cases where the rapist uh forced the women to clean themselves off.
Absolutely.
And the-
one in particular.
a woman called when she saw his picture on the television.
um her test-
Her story is exactly that.
And Littlejohn whether he's a rapist or a drug dealer or whatever he is a career criminal.
And he's also a smart guy.
I mean he managed to you know while he was on parole work as a security guard which he was n't supposed to do.
Told people he was a federal marshal.
People believed him.
And now he's telling the whole world that he did n't do this when he absolutely did.
And what's more important Dan is that he's charged with first degree murder.
And we do n't have to prove rape to prove first degree murder.
um First degree murder will have a sexual assault.
but you do n't need to prove that there was semen.
You know you do n't need to prove that there was any kind of mark left on her body.
Not according to this indictment.
I mean-
And if you 're going to follow this indictment which incidentally is the most confusing indictment I 've ever read You 've got one crime one murder.
and they 've charged it three different ways.
Under count one they do have to prove that there was a sex crime and under three as well.
What I mean is they do n't have to bring forth any forensic evidence of it.
All right All right.
Here's Kevin O'Donnell Littlejohn's attorney on Rita's show uh last night saying that his client took the subway home that night.
So how did he get home that night?
What transportation did he get home with?
uh He took the subway.
He took the subway.
Yes.
And do we have a record of that?
No we 're still looking into that.
But he says that he-
Did he go with anybody?
No he went home alone just like he does just about every night uh when he leaves that bar-
All right but I 've only got a little time left.
and there's another issue I want to talk about.
And that is that the DA-
There's been a lot of question about uh the manager of the bar and the fact that he may not have come clean about what he knew early on.
A lot of people saying uh that he actually misled the authorities and that could lead to prosecution.
Well it seems like the DA did n't seem to think that was that big a deal today.
Will anyone be investigated for obstruction of justice?
Has Danny Dorian been called in to witness yet?
uh The investigation uh is certainly still going forward.
How were you personally affected by the fact that there were citizens of this city some of them relatively prominent who told cops lies and misleaded this investigation?
Oh I 've been lied to before.
And I 've gotten over it.
Will you indict him though?.
You know when that becomes a crime I think we should all get out of this business.
but the problem Gail Abramson is it is a crime if the bar manager lied to the authorities about what happened led them on a wild goose chase.
um You 're allowed to say nothing.
but in the state of New York you 're not allowed to simply tell the authorities something that's not true and send them going elsewhere.
Exactly.
and he's going to argue one of two things.
Number one he's going to argue that he had no idea that Darryl Littlejohn aka B as he is known at the bar was on parole and was not allowed to be working there.
You know number two-
So he's going to argue ignorance.
And he's also going to argue that um you know he felt threatened or something like that. And that he uh was threatened by someone.
Remember there was another bouncer that they called Kwan that never showed up again either.
Right.
So he might plead I was a victim in this case and-
D-.
Yeah But David Golden that's going to be a hard argument to make, right?
It's going to be a tough argument in part because the original story that the bar manager told cops was that he 'd seen Imette leave alone.
And then how would you just suddenly remember five or six days later that in fact he was the one who asked Littlejohn to escort her out?
One other thing Dan worth I think pointing out real quickly here is that we did hear for the first time today a potential alibi for Mr. Littlejohn.
That Ray Kelly indicated that they do n't believe he went to visit his mother that day.
But cops still do n't know where she was killed.
A lot of holes still in this case.
They believe that he took his van to work that day and his van back we now know.
So a lot still to be answered.
All right.
Gail Abramstein.
Well we have an eye witness-
I got to wrap it up.
Gail good to have you as a guest on the program.
uh Think it's your first time as a guest.
Okay.
Appreciate it.
Janna Spillbore and Davidson Golden thanks a lot.
Thanks Dan.
Coming up, the mother of the fourteen year old who had sex with teacher Debra Lafave joins us for her first live interview.
She did n't want her son to testify.
Now she is furious at the judge.
And this woman back home with her family.
She apparently went missing ten years ago when she was fourteen.
It turns out she was just two miles from her father's home the entire time.
Your emails Abrams report at MSNBC dot com.
Please include your name and where you 're writing from.
I respond at the end of the show.
My passion was teaching.
That's taken away from me.
I 've lost family.
and I 've lost friends.
And um as you can see my face has been plastered on every internet outlet every news outlet.
And that's not easy.
It's not easy feeling the guilt and the remorse and having my own family suffer from my actions.
Do you think that um you will not?
Absolutely not.
How do you know for sure?
um In my heart of hearts I definitely know.
um I am a strong Christian woman.
and I believe that God has a path for me.
and this is just a bump in the road.
I believe that I'm going through therapy and doing everything that I can possible to better myself for the community and society.
She had sex with her fourteen year old student.
and all Debra Lafave got was three years of house arrest seven years probation after entering into a plea deal.
Now remember a judge in a neighboring county said quote that plea deal shocks the conscience of the court.
Prosecutors in that county dropped the charges.
and so the plea deal uh stands.
Here's what that judge said.
The victim in this case is not a young child.
He's now sixteen years old.
The effect a trial of this nature might have on young children less than twelve years old therefore is not a factor.
Someone who is not happy with this opinion is Sally who is the young boy's mother.
She joins me now on the phone for her first tv interview since these charges were dropped.
Thanks a lot for coming on the program.
We appreciate it.
You 're welcome.
All right so the judge eh seemed uh to really be basically saying that your son should be forced to testify.
Exactly.
And on one hand he basically says that he is uh you know appalled that a teacher would do this to a child.
And on the other hand he's saying that because you know he's not under twelve years old.
nobody likes to testify.
even referred to police officers do n't like to testify.
so um basically um You know he needed to do this.
So um I have to tell you I 've just been mostly shocked that the judge really did not appear to consider my son um at all through this.
And largely you know that was made known through his comments and his order that he issued.
You know look I made a lot of comments yesterday on this program saying that I thought that a lot of people were demanding that she be prosecuted Were suggesting that your son be forced to testify in this case.
And I was saying that the same people who are usually out there yelling and screaming for the victims we 've got to protect the victims are suddenly saying oh you know well We do n't really have to worry about the victim in this case.
Exactly.
and there was no one that wanted her to serve prison time more than myself.
And uh we-
You know that was our original plea agreement that we offered to them um.
But at the end of the day and as it got closer to the trial we were you know less than a week before trial, that uh the court tv refusing to um-
Which originally they had said they would do a delay and they would shadow my face and the family members as well as my son.
Well without a delay My son's name would have ended up being said.
um You know with thirty forty witnesses you ca n't help it.
And um you know just having all of this aired live and being debated and re-debated every statement every comment.
And as I know you know you can say one sentence.
and it's many times taken out of context.
So um at the end of the day I could n't move forward with that uh to forcing her to prison and basically having my son re-victimized.
Before I play a little bit of sound from Debra today and and get your response to it You know a lot of people have said well this teacher is so attractive.
Every fourteen year old this would be his dream.
What's your reaction to that?
How is your son reacting?
um eh eh She's a teacher.
She's a person of authority.
and she you know molested my child.
It's unacceptable.
You know her attractiveness or lack thereof in my opinion plays no part in this.
What is he saying about it now?
He does n't like to talk about it.
um To be honest with you he is doing extremely well.
um He uh just has a wonderful circle of friends.
you know he's an honor student.
He loves to play sports.
um He is extremely well balanced.
he's doing absolutely wonderful.
And my goal um is to you know um help keep him that way.
Mhm.
How did you find out about this?
He came to you, right?
No he did n't.
Actually my sister had overheard uh just basic-
She put two and two together heard eh different comments and conversations. And then all of a sudden spotted my son and this teacher in Ocala and then called me and uh asked if I knew my son was in Ocala which um you know it was a normal summer day. I thought he was at the rec center which is a place that he's always been.
Anyway um I confronted him.
One thing led to the other.
and it all came out.
um-Here's Debra Lafave on Tuesday.
uh I know that you were not entirely satisfied with her uh public statements.
I did not find them to be particularly sympathetic either.
But here's a little bit more of what she said.
and I want to get your reaction.
My greatest regret would probably be um the fact that I put this young man through this.
um I mean the media has totally um taken it out of proportion.
And um he's suffering even more so by the media's actions.
He is a young man.
and his privacy has been violated.
um He has walked outside of a door and been approached by media.
uh His picture was published on the internet.
That's what I'm talking about.
Sally it seems that your son now has a great defender in the woman who molested him.
Well that's what I find ironic that I appreciate her concern for my son.
But instead of saying her concern because of what she did to him um instead She's you know always blaming someone else.
it's really never her fault from what I 've seen up to this point.
What did you want to hear from her?
um You know I'm beyond that at this point.
I have to tell you that uh when all of this first happened you know I saw this young teacher.
She is not my son's student.
I had never seen her before.
I did n't know who we were talking about until the day she was arrested.
And um I was shocked.
And then to find out that she's a newlywed and you know has her whole life in front of her.
And why in the world would someone do what she did to my son and also you know throw her life away like that?
But I expected-
You know I thought-
uh At first I wanted to talk to her and have her explain to me why.
I just wanted to understand.
but I'm beyond that because um I 've yet to see any remorse from her.
So she might not be capable of it.
Yeah uh She seems to be blaming this all on her uh mental conditions.
She says she's bipolar uh et cetera.
but-
I believe she does have mental illnesses um.
but I.
there's absolutely no doubt that she knew exactly what she was doing on five different occasions.
Yeah.
All right Sally good luck to you and good luck to your son.
Look I 've made my views on this very clear uh that uh I fully support uh you and your decision to say look I do n't want to go through this anymore.
She's got three years of house arrest.
You now get to put this uh behind you as much as you can.
so I wish you all the best of luck.
Thank you very much.
Coming up, a girl went missing when she was only fourteen years old.
Now she reappears ten years later living only miles away from her father's home.
And in Afghanistan a man faces possible execution for converting to Christianity in violation of Islamic law.
We 'll take a look at the law in this horrible case.
Our continuing series Manhunt Sex Offenders on the Loose missing offenders before they strike.
Our search today is in New Mexico.
Authorities are searching for Benny Whitehorse.
He's thirty eight.
He is five eleven one seventy two convicted of sexually abusing a minor.
He has n't registered his address to the state.
If you 've got any information on his uh whereabouts please contact the New Mexico Department of Public Safety five oh five eight two seven nine two nine seven.
We 'll be right back.
Coming up an amazing story.
A fourteen year old girl disappears a decade ago.
This week she shows up.
Turns out she's been living just two miles from her family all this time allegedly held as a prisoner in a man's home.
Details after the headlines.
I'm Alyssa Rayburger.
and here's what's happening.
Authorities say the wife and three young daughters of a murdered Tennessee minister were found safe and alone on a Thursday night in Alabama when police spotted their van.
The popular minister was found shot to death in his bedroom on Wednesday.
and his family was missing.
Police now say the wife is being questioned as a possible suspect.
Confessed Al-Qaida conspirator Zakary As-Mazawi vowed to testify in his own defense at his death penalty trial whether his lawyers liked it or not.
He announced this Thursday after the prosecution rested his case.
And US and British troops stormed a house in suburban Baghdad and freed three Christian peace activists held nearly four months.
Officials say the British and Canadian hostages were found tied together but unguarded.
The body of a fourth colleague American Tom Fox was found dumped in Baghdad two weeks ago.
Officials say a suspect had revealed hours earlier where the hostages were being held.
Now back to the Abrams report.
She's back where she belongs.
That's all that matters.
I'm free.
I'm free.
I can walk outside the door anytime I want.
I can walk down the street.
I did n't think anybody cared because he would tell me your case is dead.
It's cold.
I knew right away as soon as I seen the eyes.
And to me she has n't changed.
We 'll just pick up right where we left off.
Do n't leave your mom and dad.
If you do n't think they love you then-
When somebody tells you they do n't love you say yes they do.
I did n't know that.
I did n't think they did.
Well we never stopped loving you.
I did n't know that.
My dad loves me.
and I love him.
And I always did.
Girl goes missing in Pittsburgh when she's fourteen.
Now ten years later goes into a local deli mart and tells the owner that she's been held captive for the last ten years. Locked in a bedroom about two miles from her childhood home and only recently allowed out.
Tanya Kach who had been going by the name Nickie said she ran away from home in eighth grade when she fell in love with a security guard in her middle school more than twice her age.
The two were secretly quote dating.
and she says the man Thomas Hose convinced her that she should come live with him at his house.
Once she disappeared from her family Kach says Hose locked her in a bedroom leaving her a bucket to use for a toilet and giving her peanut butter sandwiches and bottled water.
Police are investigating whether some of Hose's family members may have lived in the house unaware of what was going on.
Joining me now is Karen Wells from affiliate WPXI who interviewed Tanya Kach and her father yesterday and James Eckert who is Thomas Hose's attorney.
um Thanks to both of you for coming on the program.
I appreciate it.
All right before I get to Mr. Eckert uh Karen if you can lay out the story for us a little bit.
I mean you spoke to her.
You spoke to her father.
um You know she's saying that this was perfectly clear what happened that she goes home with this guy at age fourteen and then he effectively locks her in the home.
That's what she says.
She says she did n't feel like she was loved at home.
Her parents were going through a divorce.
And um she said this man told her he would love her and take care of her.
And she says for the next four years she was locked in a bedroom.
So why did it take her so long to come forward?
Well I tried to press her on that.
and she said that um she feels she was brainwashed.
um She felt-
He threatened her she said.
He threatened to kill her if she tried to leave.
uh He said her case was a cold case.
Nobody cared about her anymore.
um So she just felt like she had no other choice but to stay there.
I asked her if she was physically or sexually abused.
She said no.
uh She said he did take care of her.
He bought her things.
um If you look at the video of her you know she has her nails done.
her hair's done.
She had nice clothing on.
so um certainly not someone you would think was locked in a bedroom for ten years.
But let's be clear about something.
You said she was n't sexually abused.
But she does say she had sex with him when she was a child, right?
Yes and under the law that would be a crime.
Right.
You 're not allowed to have sex with a person who's fourteen years old.
um When she says sexually abused I guess she does n't consider it rape.
I do n't know.
Okay.
uh I just wanted to be clear because you know if you 're having sex with a fourteen year old girl you know uh that's against the law.
That's against the law.
uh James Eckert um let's go though this.
uh I know that your position is that uh this woman was not forced uh to be there.
Did she live in the house since she was fourteen?
Dan you know as well as I do-
and I respect you for that question.
But I'm certainly not going to go into facts like that as to whether she lived there or she did n't live there.
you know as well as I do there's two sides to every story.
And this is the side you hear from what you just heard and her.
Well that's why you 're on the show.
and I appreciate that.
And uh there's another side.
And the side is that we have a man who has never been involved in any crime in his lifetime.
He's almost fifty.
He's always worked.
His entire life he's worked.
He worked as security guard for the last twelve years Never had any no problems whatsoever.
He lives with his mother and dad and his son a twenty one year old.
And this is-
did-
And he's out on bond now.
or he will be out on bond with a two hundred dollar bond.
And that's about it.
So you wo n't say whether he had sex with her when she was fourteen?
Dan you know very well I'm not going to say he had sex with a fourteen year old when we have a preliminary hearing coming up and a trial coming up.
I thought you might deny it.
I beg your pardon?
I thought you might deny it.
I did n't expect you to say he did.
No I did not say he did.
nor will I say he even had sex with her.
You know that Dan.
I did n't know that.
I did n't know that you did n't want to talk about that at all.
um Will you say anything about how he knew her?
No uh the only thing I can tell you is that it would appear to me that at no time whatsoever was she a prisoner.
If she had been a prisoner in any way shape or form I'm sure the Allegheny County police would have charged him with those charges.
He has never been charged with anything like that.
The only charges against him were four counts of uh sexual situations.
And uh frankly from the time she was eighteen that's an adult in this state of Pennsylvania she could have walked away done anything she wanted to do.
She did go out.
She did-
You saw how she looked.
And uh she was never a prisoner in any way shape or form.
She could have four or five years ago done whatever she wanted to do.
Suddenly this wonderful story of hers comes out which I assume will be made into a book someday.
you know but you 're sort of mocking her.
but yet if he was having sex with her from the time she was fourteen you know there is something about that where you could say that he really messed this girl up.
Well if I said with you Dan that he did have sex with her that's true.
But I'm not saying that.
nor would I say that.
Right no I'm not-
And I think if you were representing him you would n't be saying it either.
and you know that.
Well but you are sort of attacking her by saying if she wanted to go she could have gone and this and that and she looked-
And then you 're saying well but I'm not going to comment on whether he ruined her life before that.
I said certainly if any part of this were true from the time she was eighteen years old until the time she was twenty four.
Now she looks very mature for her age as you just saw and heard.
There's no question in my mind she could have done anything she wanted.
As a matter of fact this relationship she suddenly has with her father-
She left him on several occasions and ran away from him from what I understand.
She was fourteen.
But I'm saying she ran away from him is what I understand.
Where she ran I'm not sure.
I only know what I hear.
Right.
eh Karen Wells um what is her posi--
Is she basically saying that she was brainwashed.
or is she saying she does n't know?
No she's basically saying she was brainwashed.
and her father feels she was as well.
um.
How did she come to then?
But how did she come to uh just recently?
Well she explains it as over the past ten months she had some more freedom to go out.
She started going out.
She volunteered at a church.
uh She was wearing a purple ribbon.
I asked her what that was about.
She said it was for Lent.
So she was out and about in the public.
and she started making friends especially a man at um a deli.
And people kept questioning her.
How come you do n't have a driver's license?
How come you did n't graduate from high school?
You do n't work.
You do n't have a job.
And she could n't really come up with the right answers.
And then She says finally she broke down and told this man at the deli everything because she just did n't have any answers for these questions anymore.
And she felt that she had people she could trust and that she could turn to.
She said her biggest fear was that if she tried to escape or if she told people they would n't believe her and she 'd be out on the street.
She 'd be living on the street.
Yeah.
And she did n't want that.
Well no question.
There's a lot unanswered questions here.
and uh we 'll follow this to try and help get some of those answered.
Karen Wells and James Eckert thank you very much for coming to the program.
Thank you Dan.
Have a good night.
Appreciate it.
Coming up, a man faces a death sentence in Afghanistan after he admits he's converted to Christianity.
And lawyers say the only way he can escape execution under Islamic law is to be declared mentally incompetent?
And later we 've got a copy of Vice President Dick Cheney's must-haves for when he's staying in a hotel.
I 'll compare them to mine.
Your emails Abrams report at msnbc dot com.
Please include your name and where you 're writing from.
I respond at the end of the show.
This next story may make you wonder which century you 're living in.
An Afghan court could order this man executed for converting to Christianity.
Abdul Rahman says he became a Christian fifteen years ago and was living in Germany before going back to Afghanistan in two thousand two in part to try and get custody of his two daughters.
Apparently he was arrested when police found him with a copy of the Bible.
President Bush not happy about this.
It's deeply troubling that a country we helped liberate Would hold a person to account because they chose a particular religion over another.
But in the Afghan capital of Kabul it's Islamic values that count.
And under some interpretations of Islamic law apparently you can be sentenced to death for switching religions.
Now the government is hinting that Rahman might be mentally ill and unfit to stand trial.
But this Islamic cleric Abdul Ruf is n't impressed.
He told the government quote he's not mad.
The government are playing games.
The people will not be fooled.
This is humiliating for Islam.
Cut off his head.
And he's considered a moderate.
The Taliban jailed him three times for criticizing their policies.
Alex Thier is Senior Rule of Law Advisor with the United States Institute of Peace from two thousand three to two thousand four.
He helped uh develop Afghanistan's constitution and judicial system.
Thanks a lot for coming on the program.
Appreciate it.
My pleasure.
uh If you can explain this to us.
Well Dan there's really two things at play.
In Afghanistan there is a power struggle going on between those who want to bring the country back into the community of nations and make it modern and democratic country and the Islamic conservatives who have really run the country uh for the last decade.
Even before the Taliban there was also an Islamic government.
and many of those same people are back in power.
And Afghanistan really represents something that's happening in the broader Islamic world which is a tension between democratic values on one hand and Islamic values on the other hand.
I mean because the Afghan constitution article two point two says followers of other religions are free to exercise their faith and perform their religious rights within the limits of the provisions of law.
Seems pretty straightforward.
That's right.
uh And article seven of the constitution also cites the universal declaration of human rights which specifically says that people should have freedom to choose their own religion.
let me read that.
The state shall abide by the UN charter international treaties international conventions that Afghanistan has signed and the universal declaration of human rights.
That's exactly right.
But there are contradictions within this constitution.
Article three of the constitution says that no law shall eh contradict the beliefs or provisions of Islam.
And article one thirty of the constitution says that if there is not something specific in Afghan law that speaks to a certain situation then judges should use their interpretation of Islamic law.
In this case there is nothing in the Afghan criminal code which actually talks about the crime of apostasy or changing one's religion.
Well let me ask you about-
I mean since you were involved in helping them create their constitution and their law when you were helping them do that did you foresee something like this maybe happening?
We absolutely did.
uh and there were several of us who really advised strongly both uh to the Afghan government and the people drafting the constitution as well as our own government that there were some very potentially dangerous contradictions within the constitution.
um This was ultimately a document that was agreed upon That was drafted by the Afghans and agreed upon by the Afghans.
And in the final negotiations they actually made the document even more Islamic and made the judiciary even more powerful um than what the original draft has done.
So we did foresee some of these problems.
here's the president talking about how he hopes to deal with this.
I want to listen to this and then ask you if you think that they 're going to be able to achieve this.
We can solve this problem by working closely with the government that uh we 've got contacts with and will.
We 'll deal with the issue diplomatically and remind people that there is something as universal as being able to choose religions.
It is hard to believe right uh as outsiders uh that this is a country that uh has been liberated by the United States uh that there are still many US troops there fighting the Taliban et cetera and somehow uh we now have to negotiate the right of citizens there to practice Christianity.
You 're right Dan.
it's a travesty um that something like this could happen anywhere in the world.
And I think that it really contains a very important lesson for us in that we really need to pay close attention not to just broad questions like elections but specifically the law in countries like this.
We could have worked over the last four years I believe much harder to make sure that Afghanistan had a competent non-ideological and non-political judiciary.
um And we 're really going to have to work very closely with the Afghans in the future to help them improve their judicial system.
Is it going to work?
I mean is the President going to be able to work on this diplomatically as he says and with the people that they have contacts with and resolve this?
I mean it sounds like what's going to happen is the government's going to declare this guy mentally ill.
Well I think that the government is really looking for a way out of this.
They have come under a tremendous amount of pressure.
and obviously when Secretary of State Rice and the President weigh in uh this is of uh uh extreme importance at the highest levels.
And so I have little doubt that the Afghan government will find some way to wiggle out of this either by declaring him insane or perhaps quietly letting him slip out of the country to seek asylum elsewhere.
All right.
Alex Thier thanks a lot for coming on the program.
Appreciate it.
My pleasure.
Coming up, I thought it was only rock stars who have particular demands when they travel.
But Vice President Cheney?
My closing arguments.
And later no surprise here lots of emails on the Debra Lafave case and whether it's a double standard when prosecuting female teachers who have sex with young boys.
Our continuing series Manhunt Sex Offenders on the Loose our effort to find missing offenders before they strike.
Our search is in New Mexico.
Authorities looking for Jason Huser.
He's twenty five six four one sixty five Was convicted of sexually exploiting children.
He has not registered his address with the state.
If you 've got any information on his whereabouts please contact the New Mexico Department of Public Safety five oh five eight two seven nine two nine seven.
My closing argument.
I'm here in Chicago.
When I travel, if I have to get up early I want a hotel close to the airport preferably a nice one.
I need to know where I'm going when I get here.
and hopefully I get a ride.
When I hear about people making specific demands what has to be in a hotel room I think pampered rock stars who only eat a particular color M and M or certain divas who require a particular type of flower in their suite.
But Vice President Cheney?
The web site the Smoking Gun obtained the items Cheney requires and required is underlined for his quote downtime.
It lists what must be in his hotel rooms when he's on the road Everything from the type of bread to the brand of soda.
The lights must be turned on.
And the room must be sixty eight degrees.
Okay fair enough.
But I wonder.
someone comes in and looks at the thermostat to check and then goes down and says to the manager we said sixty eight degrees.
Then he wants brewed decaf coffee.
And just so he does not succomb to his innate desire to watch the program about justice all the televisions must be tuned to the home team Fox News.
Horrors to think he might encounter other networks while flipping the channels himself on his way over.
Ca n't have that.
For some of the demands it's a bit surprising they even had to ask.
A private bathroom.
Can you imagine?
Welcome Vice President Cheney.
We have you in a lovely room today.
You 'll be sharing a bathroom with Steve Robbins in two oh two and a lovely couple in two oh three.
Please have the Secret Service wait outside.
And they add if the hotel would like to put a gift in the suite let the advance team know.
Might want to let the IRS know as well.
It's got me thinking I should make some demands of my own.
From now on whenever I travel I want a bottle of wine waiting not just any wine but fine wine.
I want the tv tuned to msnbc.
I want extra pillows and one of those really soft beds.
And if it's not there well then well well I guess I 'll just take the private bathroom.
Coming up your emails on Debra Lafave.
Again all these guys writing in oh I wish I had a teacher like her when I was fourteen.
Stay with us.
I 've had my say.
Now it's time for your rebuttal.
A lot of you still writing in about former school teacher Debra Lafave who had sex with her fourteen year old student who wo n't serve any time in jail.
We asked would a male teacher accused of the same crimes be spared prison time.
and should there be a double standard?
from Vermont Christine McGuinness.
Shallow men like my own husband have made comments regarding her.
You know the ones how they wish she had been their teacher et cetera how hot she is yada yada.
shallow.
At least you are n't like them.
Thanks for that Dan.
I'm not.
I know my producers are probably like ah uh.
San Francisco Jonathan Rasmussen.
The double standard is not between male and female but between real rape non-consensual and statutory rape consensual.
And Christopher Frank writes from New York about a West Virginia teacher Toni Woods who was sentenced to four to twenty for having sex with four boys under the age of sixteen.
The ugly female teachers who slept with her students get four to twenty years.
The pretty ones get home confinement and probation.
Your guests were talking about the double standard between male and female sex offenders.
They should be focused on the double standard within the sexes.
Well Christopher there's also the fact that there were four victims versus one.
Might have had something to do with it.
Abrams report at msnbc dot com.
Up next First Look.
Faith on trial.
US officials step up pressure to free an Afghan man condemned for converting to Christianity.
That is just one of the stories we are-