He was charged with public intoxication and resisting arrest.
Police are facing more rowdy behavior as New Orleans ' nightlife makes a comeback.
But officials said the force used in this arrest was not appropriate.
There is no excuse for officers not maintaining the high standards of this agency and serving this public.
New Orleans police have already lost their superintendent been accused of looting and seen two colleagues take their own lives during Katrina stress that surfaced when this officer grabbed a producer from Associated Press television who caught the arrest on tape.
Some say they now fear a racial backlash because Davis the suspect was black and the officers appear white mistrust that may threaten the fragile recovery in a town that has already been through enough.
That was Carl Kitnea.
The three police officers in those pictures Lance Schilling uh and Robert Evangelist who subdued Davis and SE Smith who allegedly grabbed the AP uh producer were in municipal court today.
They pled not guilty to simple battery charges which is a misdemeanor trial set for January eleventh.
The officers are out on bond.
Before we talk to the New Orleans police let me say we are getting late breaking word from the attorney uh for the man on that tape now saying his client was not even drinking that night.
Captain Marlon Defillo spokesman for the New Orleans police department joins me uh now by phone.
Captain I'm sorry we keep having to talk under these kinds of circumstances.
Let me ask you first specifically about the tape.
You 've seen the tape.
it looks horrible.
What do you make of it?
Well the tape is troubling.
You know when this was brought on yesterday morning uh the superintendent who was out of town uh assembled his senior managers including myself.
We had gone to see the tape.
and of course the tape was troubling to the point where we believe that the officers involved uh uh used more than was necessary.
Uh clearly we believe that Davis was resisting.
However we believe that the force used by the officers was not acceptable based on department policy as well as the training that we give police officers.
Um and I should say you 're on a cell phone so we 're having a little trouble.
uh if we continue to have this we 'll have you call back.
But uh Captain is it fair to ask the question are some on the police department kind of losing it?
I mean even when I was down there I saw the kinds of hours uh that people were working etcetera.
and I know that the goal was to give a lot of people some time off uh right after this happened in order to allow them to get their wits back to be able to relax a little bit.
But you know you look at this guy you know punching the one guy grabbing the AP producer you know.
these three at least give you the sense that some on the force are kind of losing it.
Well I certainly do n't want to uh any kind of excuse the officers involved.
but you know police officers have been working for the last six weeks uh under some very challenging times.
Uh but let me just say we have more than two thousand employees on the police department and certainly the incident that occured on Saturday night uh does not reflect the vast majority of the hard working men and women of this department.
But um just so we 're clear you are not defending the actions of those police officers, correct?
No I'm not.
otherwise I would n't have suspended them and have them charged with battery.
So no.
but clearly the police department-
When this was brought to our attention um uh quick and decisive action was taken.
And I think that's very important for the public that's listening to this or looking at this newscast that uh question answered that once these types of issues are brought to the attention of the administration what is the administration going to do?
And certainly um we have a zero tolerance for this type of behavior.
and when something of this magnitude occurs we 're going to take the appropriate action.
and it's going to be swift and decisive and effective.
Captain final question.
the attorney for that man is saying he was n't even drinking uh that night.
You know anything about that?
No that's the first I 've heard of that.
And again um everyone will have their day in court.
You know the officers are going to have their day in court.
Mr. Davis is going to have his day in court.
and let me just go on to say how serious this department is about discipline.
the uh Associated Press producer did not want to press charges.
Uh the police department decided that we 're going to pursue charges on the behalf of.
so uh that's how serious we are about making sure that our officers do the right thing.
And let me also add that you know there's not a police department in America that's not having personnel problems.
The question is again once you find you have problem personnel what do you do with them?
do you uh.
or do you deal with issues?
And we dealt with those issues.
Well look it is good to see uh that we 're not hearing what we sometimes hear in these kinds of cases which is well you know you got to understand the circumstances and the tape is n't showing everything.
Basically you 're saying look we took action.
it was unacceptable.
Captain Defillo thanks a lot for coming on the prorgram.
You 're welcome.
thank you.
Eddie Jordan Jr. is the New Orleans district attorney.
Victoria Habathee is a psychologist who's been counseling law enforcement for the past twenty years.
and Joe Tackapena is the uh famed criminal defense attorney who's represented police officers in brutality uh cases.
Alright um District Attorney Jordan let me start with you.
Is your office also investigating this?
Uh indeed my office is investigating this matter.
Uh we just opened our investigation today when we learned about uh this very unfortunate incident.
Um and how does it work?
I mean they 've been charged in a municipal court.
Are you bascially you know like-
you guys are effectively the big boys compared to municipal court.
Is it possible that you would simply take over say this is too serious.
it's too important.
my office is going to handle it?
Uh that is a distinct possibility.
Uh we will conduct our own investigation.
and if we determine that state charges are more appropriate uh then we will ask the city attorney to defer to the district attorney's office.
you think it's fair do n't you Mr. District Attorney to look at this tape and be horrified?
Oh I do n't think there's any question about this.
Uh uh this footage that we 've seen is unconscionable.
and it certainly demands some explanation.
Um let me read uh this quote as I go to Victoria Habathee.
this is from uh Dr. Howard Osofsky from LSU medical school.
There is no disaster that has had the amount of trauma for a department that this has where so many police officers have lost homes been separated from their families had loved ones living in other places with no idea uh when they will return.
Uh actually first let me go to Joe Tackapena on that.
Joe is that a legal defense meaning could these guys come into court and say we were so traumatized by everything that happened that it eventually led to this?
Yes Dan quite frankly it is.
I mean it 'd be unusual in a plea um sort of defense when you 're defending cops because normally their mental health is not in question.
But in this instance it could be a defense.
and more importantly as a trial lawyer what it would really be called is jury nullification.
What you 're seeing on this tape is a black eye.
There's really no excuse for it.
Um it was unjustified by any training manual across the country.
but what I just heard from that doctor from LSU and what the fact of the matter is is that these cops were working you know twenty four hour shifts some of them sleeping in their cars being displaced.
three quarters of them lost their homes.
half of them do n't know where their families are.
The level of trauma-
And look that guy who approached the AP uh newsman clearly had lost it period end of story because you heard it.
And he was just basically saying I'm trying to keep alive go home.
Uh he had clearly at that point lost it.
and these are cops who literally slept in their car for twenty four hour shifts.
here's some of what we 've seen from New Orleans police since hurricane Katrina.
These guys stayed.
Two officers um committed suicide.
two hundred and forty nine investigated for leaving their posts without permission.
twelve officers investigated for looting or condoning looting.
and uh you have this.
And also some dead Dan.
there are uncounted officers that are dead.
They 're missing about three hundred from last count.
Well that was the two hundred and forty nine investigated for leaving their posts.
Let me just say that uh from the standpoint of a prosecutor I respectfully disagree uh with that position.
I think that uh neither frustration nor fatigue would justify this kind of misconduct.
And the citizens are not going to tolerate uh police officers engaging in brutality uh because of the uh extraordinary circumstances that we have going on today.
Victoria Habathee if you were asked to testify in some sort of proceeding be it a pre-trial hearing be it a trial be it to provide uh general thoughts on the psychological conditions of some of these officers knowing what you know about what happened in New Orleans, is it fair for some of them to say everything that happened the amount of hours we were working the fact that we 've been away from our families etcetera from the psychological point of view does that explain what we see on the video tape?
I ca n't justify what's on the video tape.
It does explain in the sense the human reaction to such a excessive event.
And remembering that these officers were not only keeping the peace so to speak and uh responding but they were also victims.
Um I mean we heard-
This is number two.
if can pull this one up.
this from Dr. Howard Osofsky again LSU medical school.
Following nine eleven there was a known enemy a known situation.
and even though the two buildings were destroyed and lives lost the people who survived could go to their homes.
the city of New York was not destroyed.
the country around it was not destroyed.
Is that uh relevant do you think in terms of a psychological comparison?
I do n't if I believe there is a psychological comparison.
In my mind I compare to some of the federal agents who were uh injured or involved in Hurricane Andrew a few years ago.
and all they wanted to do was get home to their families.
Yet their jobs are to be there for the public.
and they have n't talked to their families.
and that's a superhuman request that we make of them.
We do make it.
Sorry.
here's Lieutenant Dave Binelli the president of the Police Association of New Orleans.
Everybody's under a lot of stress.
but I think the men and women in New Orleans police department on the whole are coping with it as best they can.
I'm not ready to say at this particular time until we are actually able to talk to the officers in depth about the actions if stress had anything to do with this situation.
And Joe to clarify what you were saying before I mean look you 're not actually saying that you think it's a winnable etcetera.
You 're simply saying that you think it's something that should be evaluated as a defense attorney, right.
and that's Dan exactly right.
Look it does n't justify what happened.
but I think you need to sit down with the client.
And look another important and hopefully the district attorney will take a look at this when he's evaluating what to do is who are these cops.
I mean when I'm representing a cop the first thing I do Dan is get that personnel file.
Is this someone with a history?
Is this someone who you know has a propensity towards always being involved in these you know um sort of physical contact type deals?
Or are these great cops who have not had a blemish on their record.
and if so should they be cut a break here if they really lose it?
Very quickly DA Jordan.
does that matter?
I think the focus is going to be on their conduct in this particular situation and whether it was justified or not.
And uh I ca n't imagine uh why they would punch someone in the back of the head uh uh in connection with subduing that person.
All right District Attorney Eddie Jordan thank you for coming back on the program.
Victoria Habathee Joe Tackapena good to see you.
thanks a lot.
Last week police found the body of Virginia college student Taylor Biehl.
Still no charges have been filed against the key suspect.
Her father joins us next.
And Richmond police also looking for another teenage girl Monica Sharp went out for a walk with her dog weeks ago.
Her dog came home.
she did not.
Plus the battle over Harriet Miers ' Supreme Court nomination.
Evangelical Christian leader James Dobson says Bush advisor Karl Rove told him something that makes him comfortable with Miers.
Do n't the rest of us deserve to know what he knows?
Your email MSNBC dot com.
Please include your name where you 're writing from.
Our repsonse at the end of the show.
The only suspect in the Taylor Biehl murder case behind bars but yet to be charged with any crime in this case.
Taylor last seen leaving her dorm room at Virginia Commonwealth University the night of September fifth.
Her remains were found last Thursday in Matthews County Virgina about seventy miles from Richmond.
The police ended up there after the ex-girlfriend of the chief suspect identified the area from the photograph.
The suspect thirty eight year old Benjamin Folly.
He admits to having a sexual relationship with Taylor says he last saw her at nine thirty the night she disappeared.
He also says that he was kidnapped the same night that she went missing.
Joining me now is Matt Biehl Taylor's father.
Thank you very much uh for coming on the program.
I know this uh has to be a difficult time and week for you.
and so we appreciate you taking the time.
Thank you for inviting me.
Um how are you holding up?
I'm good sometimes bad.
You know it comes and goes.
uh a lot of different things remind me of Taylor and um can choke me up a little bit.
What do you make of this Folly guy?
Had you ever heard of him before all this started?
Uh I had met Ben Folly in February uh of this year when I took Taylor down to look at VCU as a possible school that she might want to attend.
And uh what happened at that meeting?
Well I was dropping Taylor off.
Um she was actually staying in that uh townhouse with the friend that she knew from Madison high school where she graduated from.
and him and his girlfriend lived there.
and Ben Folly was their roommate.
And frankly I did n't get a sense of urgency at that point because I had no idea of his age and thought he was just a student at the school.
So it was a very brief meeting at that.
about ten or fifteen minutes yeah.
Um all right now that you know so much more have you heard anything from the authorities about uh if and when, they 're going to charge him in connection with this case?
No uh it's my information that they are still processing um evidence from the crime scene as well as evidence from Taylor's body.
Um you know like from the beginning it seems to me that this guy had to be the chief su--
this silliness about he was kidnapped on the same night that she went missing etcetera.
have you gotten the impression uh that from the beginning that he was the one they were looking at?
Well I do n't know if he's the only one that they 're looking at or if there's other people that they 're looking at.
Certainly my presumption is that he would be considered uh a primary suspect.
Yeah and here's what the police chief uh said about it uh on Thursday.
A dog tracked a scent from her car to uh a gentleman's uh named Jesse Schultz.
And it seems very coincidental and suspicious to me.
and I think the authorities are looking into any connection there.
All right that was n't the piece of sound I was looking for.
and George Peterson is the attorney um for Taylor's mother.
He's speaking there.
what he had said was we certainly believe that strongest suspect uh they already have in custody.
He was talking there about someone else who apparently has been cleared um as a suspect uh in this case.
Um tell me about the rest of family.
uh is there some level of um you know.
I hate the word closure because it always makes it seem like it's over when it's not and the pain continues..
but was there a sense of relief closure I do n't know what the word is to use when you heard that finally they had found Taylor?
For me there was.
it was um you know rather than sitting around waiting for a phone call or waiting for her to call us or wondering why she had n't called her mother or I.
Um it was closing that.
at least we knew where she was and what had happened to her to some extent.
that she was not there was a reason for her not calling us.
Matt Biehl thank you very much uh for taking the time.
and uh again in these kinds of stories it's odd because myself and my staff feel like we get to know some of the people involved in these cases even though we do n't truly know them.
But um thank you very much for taking the time.
and as much as we can uh our hearts do go out to you.
and uh we have been thinking about you and Taylor for the last few weeks.
Thank you.
Now to another uh case another missing Richmond Virginia girl Monica Sharp last seen leaving her house to walk her dog at around ten thirty am on September eighteenth.
Her mother filed a missing persons report later that day.
Monica's family and the police believe that she's with fifty seven year old Jeffrey Nichols but left with him voluntarily after meeting him on the internet.
Monica has a personal webpage appears to have last logged on to it two days after she went missing.
Joining me now on the phone is Linda Sharp Monica's mother.
Uh Ms. sharpe I say the same thing to you.
uh I know this is a very tough time for you.
so I thank you for taking the time.
Um tell us what you know uh about this gentleman who you think that uh your daughter is with.
Really we do n't really know anything about him.
We just know that he's fifty seven.
apparently he had an Illinois driver's license but does not necessarily reside there.
Um and we do n't know anything about him.
Um why are the authorities do you think so confident uh that she is with him?
I think that they were seen together in Richmond um either Monday or Tuesday.
Uh she was missing on a Sunday.
and I think Monday or Tuesday she was seen in Richmond with him.
and the person who observed them called the police.
You know so it was a tip to the police.
And is the belief that they met online somehow and set up a meeting?
Yes yes.
Well well yes I think the belief is that they met online.
and um you know they have taken all that information off our computer.
and we have seen small portions of the conversations that they had together some of which indicate that they were planning to meet.
but there was no indication that they were planning to meet that Sunday morning.
So in other words you know when she woke up went out and walked her dog she did n't take anything with her like keys her purse her money or clothing you know or anything like that.
So you know we do realize that there are these um transcripts of some conversations that they had but apparently nothing that indicated that that morning they were planning to meet.
any of Monica's friends able to provide any other information?
No we have talked to everyone.
and they are stunned because you know she saw them every day, she talked to them but she did n't say anything about this.
All right well look this is one of these cases where we do n't just have to look back where we can actually look forward and hope that someone has seen her and can call the authorities.
That's why um Linda's taken the time to came on the program.
Eight oh four six four six six seven six four that's the number uh if you 've seen her.
and we showed you the picture um of the man that she is uh suspected of being with Jeffrey Nichols.
Thank you very much uh Ms. Sharp.
and uh good luck to you.
Thank you.
thank you.
Coming up, some senators want to know what White House advisor Karl Rove told this man to make him so comfortable with Supreme Court nominee Harriet Miers even though many of his allies are not.
And they were allegedly murdered by convicted sex offender Joseph Duncan.
Now their families are suing a Minnesota county where he was charged with a different crime.
Unfortunately I think they 're going to have an uphill battle.
We 'll talk about it.
And our continuing series Manhunt Sex Offenders on the Loose our effort to help find missing sex offenders before they strike again.
Our search this week is in California.
Terry Bowen forty four five nine one seventy five has n't registered with the authorities.
He was convicted of lewd and lascivious acts with a child.
If you 've got any information regarding Bowen please contact California Department of Justice nine one six two two seven four nine seven four.
We 're back in a minute.
Coming up the battle over Supreme Court nominee Harriet Miers.
Did the White House provide assurances to some conservatives about her beliefs on hot button topics like abortion?
Should n't those people have to testify during her confirmation hearing so everyone will know?
First the headlines.
Hello I'm Bill Fitzgerald.
and here's what's happening.
Amid the devastation after Saturday's powerful earthquake in Pakistan some dramatic rescues.
Residents of one city used bare hands even crowbars to free two girls buried in a school for more than two days.
A woman and child were also pulled from the rubble of an apartment building.
Officials estimate as many as thirty thousand were killed in Pakistan alone and several hundred in India.
The US is promising at least fifty million dollars in aid.
and Pakistan is accepting aid from rival India.
President Bush is in New Orleans to get an update on progress following hurricanes Katrina and Rita.
He dined Monday night with Louisiana officials in the French quarter and is staying in a hotel there.
It's his eighth visit to the hurricane area.
Thousands of people in Colorado are without power after a major snowstorm.
It's dumped up to twenty inches of wet heavy snow in some areas.
At least one death is blamed on the storm by a woman who was hit by a falling tree limb.
You 're up to date.
let's head back now to the Abrams Report with Dan Abrams.
In my interviews with any judge I never ask their personal opinion on the subject of abortion.
Uh not to my recollection have I ever sat down with her.
What I have done is understand the type of person she is and the type of judge she will be.
With so many unanswered questions circulating about President Bush's Supreme Court nominee Harriet Miers ' position on some of the most controversial issues it seems one person believes he's got the answers.
James Dobson founder of the conservative Evangelical group Focus On The Family said last week on his radio show that he's got some inside info.
and you 'll have to trust me on this one when you know some of the things that I know that I probably should n't know uh that take me in this direction you will understand why I have um said that I believe Harriet Miers will be a good justice.
And John if I have made a mistake here I will never forget it.
The blood of those babies that will die will be on my hands to some degree.
Dobson admitted during the same broadcast last week that he had numerous conversations with Bush advisor Karl Rove about the Miers nomination.
Both Democrats and Republicans at least some of them are calling on Dobson to come before the Senate Judiciary Committee and reveal what he was told.
If there are back room assurances and if there 're back room deals and if there are something which bears upon a pre-condition as to uh how a nominee is going to vote I think that's uh a matter that ought to be known by the Judiciary Committee and the American peop-.
If uh Dr. Dobson knows something uh that uh he should n't know or something that I ought to know I'm going to find out.
Remember Arlen Specter of course is a uh pro-choice Republican.
The question should Dobson be forced to tell the Senate what information he's got on Miers.
If he refuses should he be subpoenaed?
Joining us now to answer some of those questions Jay Sekulow the Conservative American Center for Law and Justice and Elliot Minkford legal director for the Liberal People for the American Way.
All right uh gentlemen thanks very much uh for coming on.
Jay do you have any problems uh with forcing Dobson to come in and say who told you this and what did Rove say to you?
Well look the Senate has subpoena power.
they could ask him to come in voluntarily.
They could ask him to come in through a subpoena.
They can also which will probably happen through the investigative process that's probably under way as we speak Dan find out about this information.
But let me tell you something.
and as someone that's been very involved in this process of judicial selection and someone's worked with the White House I had no assurances given.
and I ca n't imagine that uh Jim Dobson did either.
I think some of the things that he's talking about and I think this will come out in due course are the statements that were made by Nathan Hecht her friend who's of course a justice on the Texas Supreme Court which was on the news um right immediately after the nomination.
so there was n't any great surprise there.
I ca n't imagine uh that uh Karl Rove or anyone else at the White House gave information.
Which is what?
Uh they talked about that she attended a church.
it was her faith based committments.
uh that's what Nathan Hecht talked about.
and talked about that she's a conservative.
But look no one knows how this woman's going to vote on a particular case.
I do agree with the President that we know she has a conservative judicial philosophy.
the President after all is given the authority to nominate.
but if Jim Dobson knew something that he was n't supposed to it will come out.
I suspect that's not the case at all.
This is what uh Chuck Schummer said on Face The Nation about it.
I believe that we ought to call James Dobson as a witness at the Senate judiciary hearings and find out what kind of assurances he's received.
If those assurances are good enough for James Dobson then all of America ought to hear them.
Elliot Minkford what do you make of that?
I think Senator Schummer and Senator Specter are absolutely right.
The concerns that have been raised about Harriet Miers include will she truly be an independent voice on the Supreme Court not just doing George W Bush's wishes and does she have a basic committement to fundamental constitutional values.
I suspect that what Dobson found out leads him to believe that she will vote the way he wants her to to overturn Roe versus Wade and do a lot of those things.
But wait.
wait.
is it possible that all they said to Dobson behind closed doors is she's a very religious woman..
uh she takes her faith very seriously.
it's a dominant part of her life.
and keep that in mind my friend?
I mean something like that was said..
let's assume that's what was said.
You know that's quite possible although if that's all that was said you would have thought he would have said that by now.
But the fact is not only should he be asked but Karl Rove should be asked what information he gave to people like Dobson.
and frankly one of the key things is this is an advisor a person who's known the President for more than a decade and he made a decision based on what he knows about her.
That means even more important than Dobson or Rove testifying is her testifying in a straightforwrad way what both Republicans and Democrats want to know.
But look that's not going to happen all right.
Look all right all right but that's a nice theory.
it's not going to happen.
I can promise you that.
I promise you she will not answer the questions that you want answered.
I mean it wo n't happen.
If you 're right about that, if you 're right about that.
Of course I'm-
I would n't be surprised for the first time to see Republican and Democratic senators unite and say we need to know more about the nominee.
look that may happen.
but anyone who's now claiming that they expect to get the answers from Miers in the confirmation hearing, that's going to somehow uh assure them one way or the other are just grandstanding because they know they 're not going to get it.
Come on.
you know you 're not getting the answers.
she ca n't say how she's going to vote in a particular case.
and Elliot you know the fact of the matter is that the President gets to make the nomination.
Whether she can or she ca n't she's not going to.
But you know well enough that that's not what we 're talking about.
well look.
What we 're talking about is.
No what we 're talking about actually is whether information was given from the White House to-
Hang on.
one at a time.
one at a t--
hang on Jay.
go ahead.
hang on Jay.
one at a time.
Jay Sekulow go ahead.
here's what we 've got.
The question today is were there assurances given to some on the conservative side with regard to uh Mrs. Miers ' Harriet Miers ' views.
The answer to that is going to be exactly what you just said Dan.
What's going to come out after all this and it will probably not take a Senate hearing to do this is that they talked about that she's a woman of sincere faith and keep that in mind.
I 'd like to know that though I got to tell you.
look I think that's what we 're going to hear whether that's actually what was said or not said because Dobson sure made it sound like he's got more than that.
Oh sure.
and the investigators will find that out.
and uh that's why.
well that's exactly right.
he did.
and that's why you need to find that out.
Well look I know Jim.
I know Jim Dobson.
I 'll tell you one thing.
Jim Dobson is going to tell the truth.
All right no I'm not questioning.
no no-
and no let me be clear.
I did n't mean to be suggesting he's not going to tell the truth.
Well but here's what you do.
you ask the question.
that's what investigators do sure.
I'm saying that's what we 're going to get from the investigation etcetera.
All right Jay Sekulow and Elliot Minkford thanks a lot.
appreciate it..
Coming up, the families of three people allegedly murdered by a convicted sex offender will sue another county for letting him out on bail.
As sad as it is as a legal matter I'm not sure they 've got a case.
Coming up.
We 're back with the horrible story of Joseph Duncan charged with bludgeoning Brenda Groney her thirteen year old son Slade and boyfriend Mark McKenzie to death and then accused also of kidnapping Chaste and Dylan and molesting them repeatedly over almost seven weeks.
Chaste eventually found in the middle of the night in a diner with her alleged captor.
and just days later Dylan's remains discovered in the Montana woods.
Well now Brenda Groney and Mark McKenzie's families are preparing a lawsuit claiming a judge prosecutors and law enforcement authorities in Becker County Minnesota are responsible for letting Duncan out on bail when they should have known he was a violent sex offender and they should have known he 'd likely offend again.
I fear they do n't have a legal leg to stand on.
Here's what we know.
March of this year Duncan's charged with molesting two boys in Minnesota.
He was already a registered sex offender having served almost two decades for the violent rape of a fourteen year old boy in Washington state.
April fifth voluntarily goes to court after receiving a summons.
he's released on fifteen thousand dollars bail.
One condition he had to have weekly contact with probation.
April eighteenth last time probation hears from Duncan.
May third probation tells the county authority Duncan's disappeared.
and on May fifteenth Brenda and Slade Groney and Mark McKenzie were murdered in Idaho.
My take.
My regular viewers know how angry this case made me.
In addition to my fury at Duncan I became furious at all the finger pointing in Minnesota.
But the bottom line is the law in Minnesota allowed for bail.
He paid cash.
If the bail had been higher he could have still put uh part of the money down and been released.
It would n't have changed anything.
The law in Minnesota needs to be changed.
but I'm afraid that this lawsuit's going to get thrown out.
But joining me now is the attorney who is going to be representing the familes of Brenda Groney and Mark McKenzie Russell Vancamp.
Mr. Vancamp thank you very much for uh taking the time.
what am I getting wrong here as a legal matter do you think?
Well you know in our system of justice in the United States things can be changed.
and it takes these people that have suffered this horrendous situation.
but this is the kind of case that can change the law or change how sex offenders are treated in the United States.
We 've got to do something.
and the time is now.
Look I agree with you.
Look as you know twice a show we put out the pictures of wanted sex offenders uh who have not reported to the authorities in the hope that we can help in that effort.
But as legal matter you would concede would you not that typically this kind of lawsuit would be thrown out?
I do n't concede anything number one.
and this is not a typical lawsuit.
so you ca n't say typical.
for not doing more etcetera when the result was horrible generally would be thrown out.
Absolutely not.
not generally.
When you have such a horrific uh situation as this uh the law takes a closer look at it.
In fact there could be some federal laws that have been violated here.
so I feel uh that they need to take care of it.
and in uh Minnesota they need to take care of it now.
How is the lawsuit viewed differently as a legal matter based on how horrific the crime was?
Now remember.
this is not a lawsuit yet.
it's a tort claim.
But when it shocks the conscience of the average person.
and any normal human being would be shocked by what happened here and how easy it would have been for uh the uh responsible authorities to look back at a twenty five year history of this devil incarnate and uh not let him loose.
and this situation would not have happened.
The family wants to stop this for the future.
that's what they want to do.
Is there a danger that if lawsuits like this succeed that basically any time a uh public official uh acts in a particular way or does n't act that if something horrible happens later that person will be held civily responsible?
Well in this type of case especially now-
Remember.
back in the old days the king could do no wrong.
Well in this case the king did wrong.
and through their neglegence uh we lost human lives.
and then horrendous things happened to little kids.
and uh this is the kind of case that's an exception to that kind of generalization that you talk about.
and you think it's fair then to say that you blame the Minnesota authorities for everything that happened here?
We blame the responsible hired employees of this county to do their job correctly and do it right and not just go through every day on a rote type situation.
This is not that type of situation.
There's got to be some accountability.
and there's got to be accountability for the future.
And when you say accountability you 're not talking about-
I mean we all would blame Duncan.
but you 're also saying that the county in Minnesota is responsible for these deaths.
Uh in a legal sense they 're responsible.
They let him out.
This guy should have never been let out and should have never been given a bond.
and had they done their job right back there and had uh invesigated it properly in this information age that we have it is my opinion and the families ' opinion this would have not happened.
But we want to stop this from happening in the future.
Yeah well look I think uh we all do.
and uh you know uh I do n't fault you for giving it a try.
I think you got a very difficult legal uh challenge ahead of you.
but I think you 're doing it for the right reasons.
Russell Vancamp thanks very much for taking the time.
Thank you.
Coming up, do n't let those on the far right tell you they do n't have a litmus test for Supreme Court nominees.
Take one look at how they 're reacting to Harriet Miers.
and you 'll see what it is.
Either you agree with them.
or you 're out.
and keep in mind when it came to Roberts some on the left did the same thing.
I'm tired of it.
My closing argument.
And our continuing series Manhunt Sex Offenders on the Loose our effort to find sex offenders before they strike.
This week we 're focusing on California.
Authorities need your finding Clifford Willard convicted of lewd acts with a child under the age of fourteen.
He's fifty two five eight one fifty has not registered with the authorities.
If you got any information on his whereabouts please call uh the California Department of Justice nine one six two two seven four nine seven four.
Back in a minute.
Closing argument.
It's time to blow through the smoke screens created by many opposed to Harriet Miers ' nomination to the Supreme Court.
It's actually quite easy to do.
The far right is afraid she's not far enough to the right.
and they want proof period.
Do n't believe those who say there's no litmus test.
Of course there is.
If you do n't want to overturn Roe v Wade, if you do n't want to limit the rights of gays and if you do n't want to allow more religion in public buildings and schools then they do n't want you on the court period.
Your qualifications quote end quote meaningless.
Now apart from the handful of law professors and legal scholars almost all of those who at this time are claiming she's not qualified are just looking for an excuse.
I assure you the vast majority of them would welcome a poorly qualified but guaranteed hardcore conservative.
The far right is only resorting to talk about her judicial experience and qualifications because they want someone with experience that proves she 'll vote their way not because they truly are concerned about her ability to uh evaluate constitutional issues.
It's almost humorous to hear some of the same people who regularly mock the so called elite point out that her law school SMU is not among the nation's most respected.
Now some on the left engaged in a similar type of dishonest attack during John Roberts ' confirmation process.
They could n't hide behind the cloak of inadequate qualifications.
After all the Harvard law grad had worked for the Justice Department repatedly argued in front of the Supreme Court and had served as a federal Court of Appeals judge.
So instead the twenty two senators who opposed Roberts claimed that they could n't vote for him because they did n't know enough about him or said he had n't answered their questions.
The reality they could n't be assured he would not vote with the conservative justices on many of the same controversial issues in particular Roe v Wade.
Since when are senators entitled to guarantees about how a Supreme Court justice will rule?
The Senate's constitutional role of advise and consent is rapidly disintegrating into one of advocate and confront.
I 'll say it again.
We can not let the fringes on both sides hijack the Supreme Court nomination process.
But it's even more insulting and dangerous when they are n't straight with us about what they 're saying and why they 're saying it.
Coming up the terror alert in New York City now over.
Some of you come to the defense of New York officials criticized for going public about questionable threats.
Your emails next.
I 've had my say.
now it's time for your rebuttal.
Many of you writing in about the terror threats on the New York City subway system and fact that New york was taking it more seriously than the feds.
Phil and Susan Kissler.
Let me get this straight.
Homeland security ie FEMA condemned the mayor of New Orleans.
and now Homeland Security's condemning the Mayor of New York for overreacting.
Jeff Morris in Socrates New York.
The source for this latest is saying Jihadists from Iraq are coming to NYC for an attack on the subway system.
If this is true does n't this contradict that we are now safer for invading Iraq rhetoric the White House has been saying for a long time now?
Tabs Rush.
all I 've heard is skepticism about the threat.
If it happens then you want to blame Bush for not acting.
If he does he's trying to walk the dog.
I believe the term is wag the dog.
but I get your point.
PJ Williamson from Tennessee.
After the way Homeland Security and FEMA performed during Katrina do we really trust their opinion?
I trust the local officials much more than the Washington jokers.
Finally Sherry Sharrows from Belleville Illinois.
Call me a cynic.
but every time the Bush administration get into trouble we get a terror alert.
Coincidence I do n't think so.
Your emails Abrams Report one word at MSNBC dot com.
we go through them at the end of the show.
We 've got an update on our first ever Abrams Report auction.
My press passes to Scott Peterson and Michael Jackson trials brought in a total of four thousand one hundred and thirty eight dollars.
As soon as we arrange the payment we will tell you about who the winner is.
That does it for us tonight.
Coming up next here on MSNBC First Look.