Hi everyone.
first up on the docket tonight we got an interview with the witness who led investigators to a landfill in the search for Natalee Holloway.
He's telling NBC news what and who he saw just days after Natalee's May thirtieth disappearance.
Also Natalee's mother met with the lead prosecutor in the investigation today.
And while the landfill continues to be searched and lead suspect Joran Van Der Sloot is interrogated for the fourth straight day by a team of behavioral specialists NBC's Michelle Kosinski remains in Aruba.
So Michelle the authorities really believe that uh this witness with regard to the landfill's credible, do n't they?
Well the authorities including the FBI we found out had checked this witness out early on just days after Natalee disappeared.
And we just found out about this witness a couple weeks ago.
That's when his existence became widely known through private investigators and other sources.
And it has been reported that he was afraid to come forward.
Well it turns out he was just afraid for his identity to be known.
but we learned that he came forward very quickly after he says he saw what happened in the landfill that day just days after it happened.
He talked to police.
He talked to the FBI.
The FBI actually went out to that landfill with dogs looked around that area even before it became piled up with garbage.
and they did n't find anything.
It's the EquuSearch volunteers who really said hey we believe this guy.
His story does n't change.
He seems to pan out.
He seems to be a lucid guy.
He seems to also be insistent that he saw something.
So he says he saw some men drive up in a white pickup truck men that he says he later recognized to be the three suspects in this case.
He says they took what looked like a body out of the back of the pickup truck.
It was wrapped up in a bag.
But when the wind blew he says he saw the upper part of a woman's body blonde hair.
and then he says they buried this body there in the landfill.
Well over a period of weeks some ten feet of garbage has piled up.
EquuSearch will tell you too that when they bring out dogs it's very difficult for a dog to catch a scent in that landfill when they 're coming across things like medical waste.
but they 're determined to keep going.
He saw uh the woman's body and inside a bag.
Her hair was blowing out with the wind.
And uh he did n't say this now.
but he told that the back kind of came off and he saw half of the woman's body.
One of the most compelling reasons searchers say they believe this guy very much is that they say he gave them some clues as to things they would find buried deep within that garbage around that same area where he claims he saw a body things like a plastic pool.
He said that there was a dirt road buried under all that garbage.
Well they found those things and a couple of other items that he said would be there.
The problem is they just have n't found any sign at all of Natalee Holloway.
but they want to clear that place out and just feel satisfied that they looked as best they could because it's disturbing.
I mean his story has panned out in some ways.
so they do n't want to give this up.
Well that's the question I have for you Michelle.
So are you saying that the authorities uh looked into this guy's story early on and they kind of pooh-poohed it and then EquuSearch came in a couple weeks later and said wait a sec, wait a sec, let's give this guy a shot here and they followed up on it?
Yeah pretty much.
Uh the witness told us directly that in the beginning he felt like nobody was believing his story.
But we talked to a high level source in law enforcement.
and it turns out they did check it out.
Hm.
They sent the FBI out there with a dog.
But EquuSearch says hey maybe we can do something more thoroughly here.
We can bring out teams of dogs.
But here's the thing.
They still have n't found one sign of her.
but uh they are determined to keep it up through the weekend at least.
Alright Michelle Kosinski as always thanks a lot.
And as Michelle reported Natalee's mother Beth Holloway Twitty met with the lead prosecutor in the investigation this afternoon Karin Janssen where she told Janssen about a girl came forward said she had an encounter with Joran Van Der Sloot the chief suspect.
And on our program last night Beth told me the story.
A beautiful eighteen year old blonde-headed girl from New Jersey um you know was able to recount an encounter that she had with Joran Van Der Sloot Deepak Kalpoe and Satish Kalpoe during the month of April oh five.
And what did she say happened?
you know it's a pretty long scenario.
We have a lot of details.
Um you know the main thing to to sum it up as you know Joran how he entered this establishment.
I believe that you know if you enter on the right side you have to have a valid ID.
You enter Carlos N' Charlie's on the left side you must have some type of I do n't know if it's a VIP pass or what to enter.
but Joran enters the establishment on the left side +approaches these group of tourist.
Um you know it's interesting how he is able to um try to work his way in and connect establish himself in uh Carlos N' Charlie's.
Was walking her around and these other tourists and was able to point out Satish and Deepak Kalpoe.
They 're sitting ironically in the same corner the same stools that they were seated at in the picture that's been all over international media.
So that must be their spot where they wait while Joran is working.
And um you know it was so interesting how everyone in the casino knew Joran.
you know he knew everyone was greeting all the guys with this grip handshake.
All the girls approach him with a kiss on the cheek.
It was interesting how um you know he was able to order these group of girls by just merely leaning over the bar and ordering three shots of one fifty-one one for himself and three for the tourists with no money.
So he's got an open uh tab at Carlos N' Charlie's.
able to run a tab.
And you know then you notice that in a evening's proceeding he's even approaching these girls getting close to closing time.
Did.
So that's another unique pattern that he has.
did she say uh anything about uh violence?
No she did n't say anything about violence.
but what I was looking for was a history is a predatory type behavior which I think Joran and Deepak and Satish have and how tightly connected the three are.
Now i-.
Joining me now is the private investigator who has been uh working with Natalee's family TJ Ward and his associate Harold Phipps.
Gentlemen thanks very much uh for coming on the program.
+Appreciate it.
Thank you.
TJ let me start with you on this issue of this woman uh who came up uh to Beth.
Have you been able to follow up on that.
and how relevant do you think it is?
Uh we have n't followed up with it.
Um Beth and I have talked about it.
and we will be following up on it uh here shortly.
is it relevant?
I mean a lot of my viewers wrote in saying alright so what.
this guy's a pickup artist.
how does that really impact the case?
Well it just shows it's a pattern of um what his activity is when he hangs out at Carlos N' Charlie's.
I mean and trying to pick women up and take them from the bar and whatever he's doing with them after that.
But if there's no violence associated with that does that help you in the investigation?
Well again we do n't think there was a violent issue with him with Natalee.
We think probably +something has happened to Natalee.
and they panicked and then went forth and did what they were supposed to do.
I mean there's issues that's come up.
Um um well we feel something happened when Natalee was with them.
What do you mean by that?
Either she either passed out regurgitated.
um something had happened.
And on top of that now there's a statement that's come up from Joran Van Der Sloot that he's given to the police uh one of twenty-two statements he's given by the way that um Deepak had uh raped her and killed her on the beach.
So at this point what the police have you know again we 're unaware because we 're not getting any information from law enforcement.
so we have to go on the course of information that we 're gathering on behalf of the family.
Well let me ask Harold how do you all know that?
I mean that information for example about that particular statement that TJ was just mentioning.
How do we know that?
Yeah how do you know that that statement was actually made by Joran Van Der Sloot?
Oh we do n't.
This is the statements that were being attributed to us on those.
Uh since we have n't interviewed Joran we do n't know exactly what he has said.
but some of that statement has been let out.
and uh through a chain of different individuals uh uh they have told us uh what the statement was.
TJ just so I'm clear where are you getting that from that that statement was made by Joran about Deepak?
I have seen a copy of the statement from one of the local newspapers here um Diario.
Um Jossy Mansur produced and showed me a copy of that statement that uh Joran Van Der Sloot made um the last time that I was here in Aruba.
and uh he conveyed it from Dutch into English and uh showed me the statement.
Uh TJ are you in any trouble there?
I mean there's been a lot of discussions about the authorities getting uh annoyed about you knocking on doors and things like that.
Well it's not that.
Um there was some.
the Aruban authorities-
and we 've had conversations about this.
This is squared away.
It's been straightened out.
Um there was uh some evidence that leaked out to the fact that had an arrest warrant for my arrest on Wednesday and that I was working without a work permit and I was going to be deported by law enforcement and Wednesday night the law enforcement was looking for me to arrest me.
Uh all that is untrue.
and I want to make that perfectly clear.
Uh this was brought up by another media station here on the island that uh made claim to that.
but I can to assure.
Alright.
It's not true.
We 'll move on.
Alright.
Yes.
Alright.
Um uh Harold finally this landfill.
Uh are you hopeful uh that EquuSearch is going to find something?
How credible do you think that witness is who says that he saw three men dumping what looked like a blonde body?
Well uh as a retired FBI agent I'm always hopeful for an outcome.
Uh we interviewed the individual at length.
and having experienced hundreds if not thousands of interviews during my thirty-one years uh this guy was very uh online.
He did n't go mm ah.
I mean he was like telling a story.
and it did n't appear to me at all like he was coached or practiced.
Mhm.
He just told a story uh from the beginning to the end.
and I believe him.
I think there was something there.
if there is the body, whether it's still there is another story.
Mhm.
There has been uh a period of time since then.
and it could have been removed again.
But uh his story I think is credible.
We also had a-
TJ.
Sorry go ahead.
finish up Harold.
No go ahead.
I was just going to a--
I'm out of time.
I was going to ask TJ bottom line do you think that you 're going to be able to crack the case in the next uh couple weeks?
Well it depends.
I believe that law enforcement uh since the FBI's been here has been working very credibly.
Mhm.
And uh I believe that they have something um that's probably solid enough and hopeful uh come September fourth that Joran Van Sloot will stay where he's positioned right now.
Mhm.
and that there 'll be additional arrests in this matter from uh parties and individuals that waited we already know that are possibly involved in this disappearance.
Alright.
TJ Ward and Harold Phipps thanks a lot guys for taking the time.
Really appreciate it.
Coming up two former jurors in the Michael Jackson case writing tell-all books about the case.
They now apparently say Jackson is guilty.
and they 're apparently saying that they broke all kinds of rules in the jury room sneaking in tapes of news reports.
An insider on the new books joins me next.
And it's been a month since this man went missing on a honeymoon on a Mediterranean cruise.
Police now looking into three men who might 've had something to do with his disappearance.
maybe foul play.
And our weeklong series Manhunt Sex Offenders on the Loose wraps up tonight.
We 're trying to get these guys before they strike again.
We 'll check in with Erin Runnion five year old daughter Samantha raped and killed by a sex offender.
Your email abrams report at MSNBC dot com.
Please include your name where you 're writing from.
I respond at the end of the show.
New York Daily News today reports that jurors are saying there were all sorts of shannanigans going on in the jury room at the Michael Jackson case, that a juror wanted to convict Jackson smuggled in a medical dictionary to prove Jackson fits the definition of a pedophile.
She was later she says intimidated into changing her vote to not guilty.
Same juror we told you about yesterday Eleanor Cook who's reportedly writing a tell-all book titled Guilty as Sin Free as a Bird.
News also reports another allegation that quote another juror sneaked a forbidden video of Court TV broadcast featuring the prosecution friendly Dianne Dimond and Nancy Grace to the jury room but a faulty VCR prevented a sneak peak.
And then a quote gang of three female jurors were such rabid Jackson fans that they cooed not my Michael when the panel discussed the felony charges against the pop idol.
Yikes.
Stacy Brown MSNBC analyst author of Michael Jackson the Man Behind the Mask and a name who keeps popping up with all these books.
Stacy are you writing any of these books first of all?
No I'm not.
Alright.
But you actually talked to these jurors about writing a book.
That's correct.
Alright.
and you were approached alright.
I was approached.
And so they are saying the things that the Daily News reports, are they not?
Well they are saying a lot more than just that.
What else they saying?
Um well eh let's just clear up with the medical book.
She did n't actually bring it into the deliberation room.
the jurors were meeting.
They rendezvoused at a juvenile hall in Santa Maria.
and she bought it there.
and as they were getting into the van they ordered it to put it back in her car.
but she wanted them to understand Ellie Cook this is that this fits Michael to a tee.
So she wanted them to know Michael Jackson's guilty, he's a pedophile.
and then what?
Then she just caved?
She says she was pressured.
Think she was threated.
and they were threatening to throw her off the jury.
Come on.
this is the one who's been wanting to write a book since the beginning, right?
Yeah absolutely.
Her granddaughter had put out feelers since she was picked for the jury.
What other kind of shannigans were going on back there, do they say?
Well um they mentioned um as you had mentioned in your open about the Court TV video.
Someone had apparently taped some Court TV um stuff.
and they tried to play it.
Uh apparently it was a malfunction in the video tape.
Mhm.
Well let me give the juror's explanation for this.
And.
This is Paula Coccoz.
we talked to her today juror number ten.
It's number four.
Uh the bailiff brought in a TV with a VCR so we could review the sheriff's interview.
and we went to put in the tape.
The tape was marked Court TV.
The people at the courthouse had left this tape in the VCR.
We told the bailiff about this.
and he seemed concerned about whether or not we reviewed the tape.
We told them we did n't watch it.
We did n't find out until later what was on the tape.
Yeah.
according to Ellie though someone taped that show.
It was n't left there.
Um and there was a problem.
Now I know that someone else mentioned that there was a problem as well with a VCR.
but if you remember well the interview with the sheriff and the young boy was on a disk and not a VCR.
And this is number five.
Uh this is again the Daily News.
That Cook uh admits that she frequently winked at Jackson's mother um Katherine in court and exchanged wardrobe tips with the entertainer's mom which resulted in them wearing the same colors on certain days.
Ellie Cook talked about that yeah.
She mentioned that they would wink and nod at each other.
I do n't understand.
So on the one hand this juror's saying I was convinced he was guilty you know.
and they 're saying oh she was trying to bring in a medical text.
and on the other hand she's sitting there winking at Katherine Jackson talking to her about what clothes they 're going to wear.
Saying everything was going to be okay.
She-
And that's why you did n't believe this story.
That's why I do n't yeah ah.
That's why you would n't write the book.
I'm not writing it because I just think that there's a lot of issues with this.
if you felt that this guy was guilty, you felt he was a pedophile, he lives in your community, he's a very powerful member of your community why let him free then?
Do you just not believe these jurors?
Is that the problem?
I just do n't believe them.
Why?
I mean they 're making this up for money?
It's just-
well uh you know I think in both their cases they feel now in retrospect maybe we made a mistake.
And see I can live with that if that's what they are saying.
but they 're not saying that.
They 're saying that they believed all along he was guilty.
and I'm having a hard time with that.
Alright Stacy uh stick around for a minute.
Joining me now NBC News legal analyst former prosecutor Susan Filan and attorney and Celebrity Justice executive producer Harvey Levin criminal defense attorney Daniel Horowitz.
Harv what do you make of-
Look you 've followed this close.
What do you make of all this?
Well I think Eleanor Cook is a wacko Dan.
and I think if any of these allegations are true these jurors need to be prosecuted.
I mean this is jury tampering from within the jury if these allegations are true.
And if there is ever to be a fair celebrity trial again especially in California somebody needs to say look we are drawing the line.
You 're not going to get books at the end of the rainbow and do things inappropriate.
If it pans out it's true I think Tom Sneddon himself should prosecute without respect to whether it would have been pro or anti Michael Jackson.
So Susan let's assume for a minute it's true.
Again you 're the prosecutor.
and you 're sitting there going are you kidding me?
There were two or three jurors who wanted to convict.
and they caved because they were pressured or whatever.
You ca n't do anything, can you?
Nothing.
eh game over.
You ca n't take an appeal from an aquittal.
The problem that I have with this is as members of the media we had an awfully difficult time with access to this trial.
If this is going to set a precedent to shut media out because these highly publicized celebrity trials yield these faulty verdicts she's doing far far more harm than she could ever understand.
Yeah but let's forget about the media stuff.
I mean the bottom line is the prosecutors ca n't do anything about this, right?
I mean if the jurors were tampering with evidence, if they were playing with evidence et cetera back there the prosecutors have to just suck it up and be depressed.
There's no remedy.
They have to eat it.
It's over.
Daniel I mean Stacy does n't really believe them.
but what do you think?
Well Dan I believe them.
You know jurors are people.
We expect them to be perfect little robots doing what the judge says.
and they do n't.
They 're going to watch television.
I'm sure they all watch your show.
and they watched Susan try to convict Michael Jackson.
but then I hope they listened to me and to reason.
But the bottom line is they reached a fair and just verdict.
You have to trust people and nail those attempts to control and hypercontrol this case.
Just backfired.
It made the jurors feel isolated.
and now they 're all quiet.
They wo n't talk to us about what really went on.
Okay here's my problem.
It's this woman saying she was forced and bullied right into reaching the verdict that she did.
and there she is saying I did n't like the way that this woman snapped at me talking about the accuser's mother et cetera..
You know Dan I do n't even talk to juries afterwards unless I win because you 're always going to hear things like that.
People in a jury room are in a bar room brawl.
It's not supposed to be pretty.
and when it's over there's always second thoughts and regrets.
but it's the system.
and it works.
Harvey you know what.
eh hey hey if I may say-
But Dan your point is that-
You know a bar room brawl is one thing.
They were acting like outlaws if these allegations are true.
Right.
And you know I agree Susan that the prosecutors ca n't do anything to Michael Jackson.
but they certainly can do something to the jurors.
and I think it is more important right now to say-
I'm telling you Dan you and I have covered a lot of trials in this city.
and we 've seen a lot of weird things happen since OJ Simpson with books and everything else.
If jurors realize that there's a back end if you will which is a Hollywood term to these trials and if they get caught so what they get caught but they can still publish a book if they believe that everything is going to change in this city.
let me ask you.
Harv here's the thing that I do n't understand.
And this is why Stacy made the right call on this.
Alright Stacy may say he did n't believe them whatever.
I do n't think that many people are going to buy this book.
Is that Stacy?
I did n't either.
Is that the real reason you did n't want to write the book Stacy?
Well no no that's not the b--
You did n't think you were going to make any money?
Come on.
That's the real reason, is n't it?
No.
the real reason is Dan believe it or not I have a conscience.
I wrote Man Behind the Mask with Bob Jones because I believed in Bob Jones.
and I still believe in the material.
I do n't believe in this material.
uh Harvey do you agree with me that the book's not really going to sell much?
Absolutely.
For two reasons.
Number one I think it would have been a better book if he would have been found guilty.
And secondly I think the credibility of the authors um mean a whole lot.
and eh you know I just think everything is so off-kilter people are n't going to be particularly interested in it.
Yes.
Yeah.
Uh reminder.
you can hear from uh those two jurors who now say Jackson's guilty premiere of Rita Cosby Live and Direct Monday night at nine PM eastern right here on MSNBC..
Susan Filan's going to stick around.
Harv Daniel Horowitz thanks a lot.
appreciate it.
Coming up no clear explanation for what happened to a honeymooner who disappeared from a Mediterranean cruise last month.
Police now focusing on three men seem to be telling some inconsistent stories.
And our series on wanted sex offenders around the country concludes tonight.
It's called Manhunt Sex Offenders on the Loose.
College student Dru Sjodin allegedly raped and murdered by a sex offender two years ago.
Her mother joins us along with Erin Runnion whose five year old girl was raped and murdered by a convicted sex offender.
Coming up, man disappears on his honeymoon cruise ship.
Police on the case focusing now on three men seem to be telling some inconsistent stories.
More on the investigation coming up.
but first the headlines.
Hello I'm Milissa Rehberger.
Here's what's happening.
The Russian military is racing to rescue seven sailors trapped in a minisubmarine six hundred and twenty-five feet below the surface of the Pacific Ocean.
The sub got snagged in a giant fishing net.
A US Airforce jet carrying robotic undersea vehicles is on its way from California to aid in that rescue.
It's expected to arrive in ten to twelve hours.
It is unclear how much oxygen remains onboard that minisub.
The Russian Navy's chief spokesperson says there may only be about twelve hours worth while another official says there's more than twenty-four hours left.
British Prime Minister Tony Blair announced the crackdown on terrorists and extremists in the wake of the London bombing.
He proposed new deportation measures against people who advocate violence.
And a new anti-insurgents operation underway in western Iraq.
US marines and Iraqi troops launched Operation Quick Strike in the Euphrates River Valley.
That is northwest of Baghdad.
That's where twenty-two marines were killed this week.
Back to the Abrams Report.
Exactly a month after twenty-six year old George Smith vanished from a Royal Caribbean ship cruising in the Mediterranean NBC News has learned federal investigators are now focusing on three men who were traveling on the cruise ship called Brilliance of the Seas two Russian brothers who live in Brooklyn and one man who lives in California.
The attorney for the California man issued this statement.
We 've been cooperating with the FBI and the US Attorney's Office in their investigation.
and we 'll continue to do so.
However we 've been asked by the authorities not to speak with the media while the investigation is pending.
and we intend to honor that request.
This photo taken the day shows what appears to be blood on the awning below the cabin where Smith and his wife were staying.
Smith was traveling on his honeymoon and had left Barcelona Spain on June twenty-ninth.
what was meant to be a twelve day cruise.
Halfway through the trip on the morning of July fifth he disappeared.
He was reported missing later that day when the ship docked in Kusadasi Turkey.
NBC has also learned that Smith's new wife Jennifer Hagel has been questioned is not a suspect.
Two were married on June twenty-fifth in Newport Rhode Island.
Joining me now former Connecticut prosecutor NBC News uh legal analyst Susan Filan who's been covering the case closely and Orlando police chief Walter uh Zalisko who was on the same cruise that Smith travelled on as well as forensic expert Larry Kobilinsky.
Alright so Susan what do you know about the investigation?
Well NBC news has learned from a law enforcement source that the wife is not a suspect and that they are focusing in on these two Russian brothers as you said who live in Brooklyn.
The California teen is apparently the key to the case at this point.
That's law enforcement's focus.
If this young man will talk this could break open what happened to George.
The key question is is this a tragic accident or is this foul play?
Right now law enforcement seems to think it's foul play.
US attorney Kevin O'Connor said we have reason to believe there could have been foul play here.
Um alright uh Mister Zalisko do you know anything from your personal experience of having been on the cruise as to what happened?
Uh good evening sir.
Uh first I 'd just like to clarify I'm a police chief in Oak Hill Florida not Orlando.
Uh now as far as the cruise uh I was on the cruise that uh uh day.
and the way I became aware of what occured was that uh the morning of the fifth a relative of mine had mentioned that there was blood stain on the canopy beneath her uh balcony.
at that point we kind of dismissed it.
We did n't know what was uh going on.
Uh we then went on our daily excursion.
However later on into the cruise that day uh the ship's captain went onto the PA system and made an announcement that uh authorities were on the ship and they were investigating the possibility that an individual had gone overboard during the night or early morning hours.
When I asked my cousin the uh size of the blood splatter she had indicated it was relatively the size of a small uh dog of a beagle type.
However viewing those photographs on TV that blood splatter is much larger than uh a small dog.
Mhm.
In fact it's maybe three to four feet in length.
And then we 've been hearing many stories that uh there were a lot of people going into and out of the state rooms uh which would indicate that the crime scene was not properly secured in the early stages of the investigation.
Well.
Alright let me play this piece of sound from one of the passengers who was uh staying right nearby uh this particular uh room.
We were awakened uh about four in the morning uh by loud yelling coming from the cabin.
Um it sounded like people uh cheering uh like a drinking contest type thing.
And he says uh later um chief that he heard a horrific thud.
Well yeah that would indicate that something did go on there.
and we know uh that the three individuals were in a room uh with Mister Smith.
And the question that has to be uh presented to everybody is why is it taking so long for authorities to interview the individual that was in a cabin next door?
Mhm.
Any seasoned investigator would know that you would want to conduct your interviews uh of possible witnesses immediately after the crime.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And you would not just interview that individual next door.
You would have to take a step to interview people above below and to both sides.
Susan what's the answer to that?
But Dan.
there are jurisdictional problems here.
You know it's not a clear cut case as to who gets to prosecute this case.
Turkey ca n't do anything without a body.
United States can.
Fair play of the United States for stepping in.
fair play to law enforcement for getting involved.
Jurisdiction is n't clear.
but they 're working very hard to solve the crime.
I do n't think the criticism is well placed against law enforcement in this case.
Also the crime scene oh if you want to call it that was cleaned up by the cruise ship who got their investigators and their lawyers in from what I understand right away to make this go away.
so I think law enforcement was put in a bad position trying to play catchup.
and I think they 're doing +an amazing job.
Larry so uh any chance now based on the fact that things have been cleaned up et cetera to get any usable evidence?
Well it's very difficult Dan.
Uh obviously as we keep saying we do not have a body.
therefore we do not have a cause or a manner of the death.
But we do have some physical evidence.
Unfortunately examination of the photograph uh tells me it was not done the proper way.
It was n't a forensic photograph.
So I really do not know how large the stain was in its dimensions.
but it is pretty clear that there's a lot of blood there great deal of blood.
It makes you think that something criminal occured.
But again getting back to how you solve the crime you got to go to the crime scene.
and I think there are multiple scenes here.
Every place there's blood it's a crime scene.
But the most important place is the cabin because that's presumably where the injury took place.
Now there was some rumor about some arguments going casino the night before.
Uh and it could very well be that he was arguing with these individuals.
so uh that could be the tie the connection.
and I think good policework would connect the individuals in question with the casino with Mister Smith.
and that might help us understand what happened.
this is um a little bit more sound.
This is again from Cletus Hyman uh who was literally um in a joining or nearby cabin um as to what he heard around he said four in the morning the day before uh Mister Smith went missing.
At times it sounded like furniture was being actually picked up and dropped.
and then that horrific uh thud.
Yeah I mean that sure sounds to me chief like we 're not talking about someone who-
I mean I guess it's possible if you 're talking about loud yelling coming-
Well look if this guy's right that loud yelling is coming from the cabin right and the wife is not a real suspect here means that there was probably someone else in there.
Well there absolutely was someone else in that room.
And what's interesting is there was a witness who uh had informed ship's authorities that she had heard a scream uh early that morning.
And what's really interesting is uh we do n't know if she's been interviewed at this point.
But it was five days later that the ship's attorneys had begun to question her not law enforcement but ship's attorneys.
We will uh continue to follow this.
Chief Zalisko of the Oakhill Police Department sorry about that Susan Filan Larry Kobilinsky thanks a lot.
Coming up two mothers both their daughters kidnapped raped killed.
Join us for the final installment of our series Manhunt Sex Offenders on the Loose.
And you know I sort of pooh-poohed the idea that two jurors from the Michael Jackson trial are now writing tell-all books saying that they think Michael Jackson's guilty.
You respond to me, coming up.
Abrams Report at MSNBC dot com is where you send your emails.
Please include your name where you 're writing from.
I respond at the end of the show.
Coming up, our series Manhunt Sex Offenders on the Loose continues with two mothers who lost very loved ones to really these monsters, coming up.
All week we 've been continuing with our series Manhunt Sex Offenders on the Loose.
In a moment I'm going to talk with two very courageous mothers who both lost daughters to sex offenders.
But first I want to highlight some of the wanted sex offenders running free before they strike.
This time in New York state.
Tomas Meddaugh is a oh he's not thirty that guy's what fifty alright fifty year old white male five foot seven a hundred and sixty-eight pounds with scars near his left eyebrow and shoulder his neck and abdomen.
He's got a prior conviction for rape.
and his current offense involved deviant sexual intercourse with a thirteen year old girl.
He's considered armed and dangerous.
Francisco Paulino is a forty-six year old Hispanic male five foot nine hundred and forty no scars or tattoos that they know of.
He does have a prior conviction for the knifepoint rape of a fourteen year old girl.
He's violated his parole.
He's wanted.
Dion Bryant twenty-four year old black male standing five foot six one fifty-six.
Convicted for attempted rape.
three underage girls involved.
He too has violated his parole.
Wanted.
Anyone with information about their whereabouts should call New York's a hundred most wanted tipline one eight hundred two six two four three two one and keep in mind that these guys really may be dangerous.
so-
Now the women you 're about to meet lost their children to vicious predators.
Samantha Runnion was uh just eleven days away from her sixth birthday when she was kidnapped sexually assaulted and murdered by a man named Alejandro Avila.
He's been sentenced to death for those crimes.
In choosing to destroy Samantha's life you chose this.
You chose to waste your life to satisfy a selfish and sick desire.
You knew it was wrong.
and you chose not to think about it.
Well now you have a lot of time to think about it.
Do n't waste it.
Write it down so that the rest of us can figure out how to stop you people.
You 're a disgrace to the human race.
And Dru Sjodin was a twenty-two year old college student.
She was abducted and killed.
Alfonso Rodriguez a man with prior convictions for assaulting women is facing trial accused of kidnapping and murder.
Convicted he too uh could get the death penalty.
Joining me now is Samantha Runnion's mother Erin Runnion and Dru Sjodin's mother Linda Walker.
Thanks so much uh for coming on the program.
We appreciate it.
Alright Erin let me start with you.
What do you think the biggest problem is out there when it comes to these sex offenders?
Well I think that there's a gross misconception about sex offender crimes.
I think most do not realize how pervasive the problem is.
The sex offenders that we have caught are a very small percentage of those that are out there.
Statistically one in four girls and as many as one in six to ten boys are sexually assaulted before they are eighteen.
That's nationwide.
This problem is much bigger than I think people are realizing.
And Linda I guess what we 're realizing as we have been highlighting these wanted sex offenders around the country is how many of them are still out there and wanted.
Well currently there's um right now uh over a hundred thousand that are missing.
Unbelievable.
Uh we know that there's over five hundred thousand registered.
So yes there's a vast amount that are running uh through the system.
That's a May of two thousand five um statistic.
but as far as those before that time and date.
Um Linda eh how much has this eh when I say changed your life I mean in addition to the obvious loss of your daughter but in terms of what you are doing everyday with your life.
both of you have devoted much of your lives to this cause now.
Linda why do n't you tell me a little bit about what you 've been doing.
Well um I 've been working with um er pardon me Byron Dorgan Senator of North Dakota.
um working legislation on what has been uh called Dru's Law which we hope will be a national sex +offender uh database through computer.
And um obviously we know that this nation is more and um they 're able to access cross you know state lines.
so I think it's important that uh people of predators living amongst us across you know the country and be vigilant uh besides uh leaving the pressure on them.
Mhm.
Yeah.
Erin uh every time I listen to that tape of you um talking to uh your dau-I get chills.
Um was it at all uh cathartic for you to be able to stand across from him?
Definitely.
Definitely I to say what I said to him.
I needed to address him.
And I feel like I got it off my chest you know.
I hope to never ever see him again.
The whole trial process is really built around the defendant.
and um it was very important to me that I bring it back around and make it about Samantha because that's what it was really about.
Do you watch these other stories uh in the news.
and does it just get your blood boiling as you see eh these cases where was on the loose should have been arrested could 've been.
You know the technology is there.
so yes it infuriates me.
I ca n't understand why we 're so behind in terms of tracking sex offenders.
and I really think it's because people do n't real--
there's no reason that there should n't be a nationwide movement to stop these people. To have them register at the very least have them their driver's licenses.
If they do n't they go on a most wanted list.
it's made public nationwide.
At the very least every state could do that.
it adds to state revenue.
it does n't take away.
It's a good way to track them.
And I have to just on a personal note applaud Linda.
I met her before they had found Dru.
and I'm so sorry for your loss.
I think you 're just amazing.
You 're doing such a job.
Well as well for you too.
Thank you.
Linda are you psychologically prepared uh for this trial?
I mean eh you know you can tell from seeing on that tape that obviously it's not easy stuff.
I mean to sit there next to these guys.
You know it's just another part of this whole sick story.
there's no script for it.
I do n't know if anyone could ever be prepared.
Um obviously it's something that um we look to have it put behind us so we can really dwell more on what Dru gave us in her life and not how tragically she was taken from us.
And also I have to say that what both of you are doing in working with legislators uh to move forward uh to not just say we 're going to only look past.
Both of you are doing.
and that's why we 're so um glad and proud to have you both on the program.
It's because of what both of you are doing to have things change.
um and I think that is what's-
Go ahead Linda.
Well and uh thanks goes to you and to the media to help us.
Absolutely.
Obviously we could n't scream loud enough uh to bring the attention.
so our hat is off to all of you as well.
Yeah.
Yeah and that's-
And to realize you know why we 're out here doing what we 're doing on the scale that we 're able to.
and that's why I have to tell you on this special series we 're doing I'm just getting so tired of hearing these stories about these guys where they were always on the loose and people say oh you know it would have been nice if he was captured.
Tired of it.
and as a result you know we 're doing the little bit that we can.
but you guys are the ones who are really going to get things done.
Your voices your presence um I think is really the difference.
and that's why I thank you both so much for coming on the program.
Well thank you.
Well thank you.
it's.
And you know it's so important we know too.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
It's so important that people realize at home that in our own homes in our own lives we can work to prevent these crimes.
It is really just about uh communicating with neighbors getting a watch going in your community talking-
Report every suspicious behavior there is.
You never know.
It leads to convictions time and time again.
and Linda Walker thank you both so much for coming on the program.
Absolutely uh.
Thank you.
We really appreciate it.
Be right back.
Thank you.
Thank you Dan.
I 've had my say.
now it's time for your rebuttal.
Last night I said if the two jurors in the Michael Jackson case are really now saying that he's guilty that's shameful.
Leslie Birdwhistell from Bowling Green Kentucky.
Man you.
Ca n't these people step away from the trial and the ten other jurors take in some information that was not presented in court and change their minds about the verdict?
Uh No.
It's too important.
They saw the evidence.
The only thing that might 've changed their minds this quickly I think is money or peer pressure neither of which are very good reasons.
David Becker from Bradenton Florida.
Why's it so difficult to believe these jurors believed Michael Jackson was guilty but did n't believe there was sufficient evidence to convict?
Uh maybe Dave.
but the Daily News reported that they quote flip-flopped.
And in our weeklong series Manhunt Sex Offenders on the Loose trying to stop wanted sex offenders before they strike Chris O'Rourke from Gardner Massachusetts.
I'm happy that someone's finally trying to do something to ward off these child attacks before rather than focus on them after.
from West Hollywood Californ--
Dan I know your intentions are good.
but your drive to stop sex offenders before they commit a crime sounds a bit like a southern lynch mob in the sixties.
Really.
it's a lynch mob mentality to want to find wanted sex offenders.
Your emails Abrams Report one word at MSNBC dot com.
we go through them at the end of the show.
Coming up, how one penny pinching motorist thought he was getting back at the cop who gave him a speeding ticket.
Did n't really work.
Our Oh Please is up next.
Oh please you ever wondered how to get back at the police for writing you a speeding ticket?
One man in Moorhead Minnesota thought he could do just that by finding good use for all-
The driver paid for the one hundred and twenty dollar ticket with twelve thousand pennies.
Seattle man was issued a speeding citation for driving seventy in a fifty mile per hour zone.
Speedster showed up to court hauling a small garbage can full of pennies.
Court had the final laugh though making the guy wait at court until every was counted offsite at a bank.
That does it for us tonight.
Coming up next Hardball with Chris Matthews.
Have a great weekend.
We got a big week next week.
so we 'll see you.
Should the peace include military reservists?
And why wo n't they let Bob Novak speak?
Let's play Hardball.