do n't.
Tim Russert will be back next week at a special earlier time eight am Eastern right before the Wimbledon finals.
The evidence is the evidence.
The tapes are the tapes.
I think Pam would just be convicted again.
For William Smart to this day the murder of his son still does n't make sense.
In his office hangs Greg's wedding picture minus Pam.
This could have been prevented by a certain little divorce decree.
If she wanted a divorce and she wanted out of the marriage all she had to do was go to an attorney and get a divorce.
It was n't a matter of murdering your spouse.
This woman is very wrong.
And I hope to God she stays in there And lives a long long time.
I have peace in my heart knowing that I was n't involved in this except for you know the relationship that I had with Bill Flin which I 've already I believe you know put myself through enough behind.
But I just do n't feel that when I look in the mirror in the morning that I hate who I see.
Because now I'm this evil person who you know did all this.
no I do n't.
I have peace in my heart.
But you know I felt a lot of anguish in my life being incarcerated.
It has n't been easy.
For now it appears that Pamela Smart will spend the rest of her life behind bars.
Just recently she reflected on that with MSNBC's Rita Cosbey.
Sometimes I think about that.
and I think like what if I really never got out of here?
I mean uh how am I going to do this?
some days I think that I can.
And other days I think that I ca n't.
As for the four young men Billy Flin and Patric Randell will not be eligible for parole until two thousand eighteen.
In June two thousand five Raymond Fowler was granted parole and released from prison.
Two months later after serving fifteen of his eighteen year sentence Vance Ladamie was also paroled.
That's our report.
Thanks for watching.
I'm John.
Tuning in today Andrea Mitchell.
Our issues this Sunday battles on capital hill.
Iraq immigration flag burn the supreme court ruling against the President's claim of war time power.
All setting the stage for November's midterm election.
With us the Assistant Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell republican of Kentucky And the chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee Chuck Schummer of New York.
McConnell and Schumer square off.
Then the President leads an attack on the media.
There can be no excuse for anyone entrusted with vital intelligence to leak it And no excuse for any newspaper to print it.
Leaks freedom of the press and national security.
Insights and analysis from Bill Bennett radio host and author of America The Last Best Hope John Harwood of The Wall Street Journal and CNBC Dana Priest of The Washington Post And William Safire of The New York Times.
And in our Meet the Press Minute thirty five years ago this week the Supreme Court issued an injunction allowing The New York Times to continue publication of the classified Pentagon Papers.
The man who leaked the Papers to The New York Times Daniel Ellsberg was a guest on Meet The Press May twentieth nineteen seventy three.
I 've not met a lawyer in this country who could say clearly that the acts that I admitted doing copying the Pentagon Papers of which I had authorized possession and giving those copies to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee ultimately to the press violated any law.
But first Senator McConnell and Senator Schumer welcome both.
In a major rebuke this week to the White house the Supreme Court ruled that the White House has to abide by the Geneva convention and the uniform code of military justice when handling detainees uh And ruled that the military tribunals can not be the.
Senator McConnell in addition to this the New York Times editors wrote in reaction to the Supreme Court's decision striking down the military tribunal set up to private detainees being held in Guantanamo bay it is far more than a narrow ruling on the issue of military courts. It is an important and welcome reaffirmation That even in times of war the law is what the constitution the statuette books and the Geneva convention say it is. Not what the President wants it to be.
Senator in a broader sense is n't this a real rebuke out of repudiation of the broad authority That the president's been claiming since nine eleven?
Well first and most importantly the decision did not require the President to release the prisoners at Guantanamo.
Nor did it require the president to close Guantanamo.
Correct.
It said that uh in order to try these individuals an appropriate thing to do would be for the President to get the Congress uh to create military commission.
Or there were two other options Both of which I think were clearly unacceptable.
So what I think Congress will be doing is creating military commission.
And second a very disturbing aspect of the decision was that the court held uh common article three of the Geneva convention applicable to um American service men.
And this means that American service men potentially can be accused of war crimes.
I think Congress is going to want to deal with that as well when it enacts these military commissions.
And I think we need to do it soon.
uh and so we 'll be dealing with that in the coming weeks.
you have time?
you 're going off now?
Are you off now?
There's nothing more important than the war on terror.
And I think uh we will have to act on this very soon either in July or in September Certainly uh in the next couple of months.
Senator Schumer will this be a bipartisan effort?
And can you agree on the fix?
I think it will.
uh Look let's face it Andrea.
The world is a different place.
And in this war on terrorism you do n't have set battlefields.
You do n't have the enemy wearing uniforms.
So to change things that is a good idea.
The problem is this White House has felt it could just change things unilateral Against the Constitution against the systems of checks and balances.
Had they come to Congress a few years ago on this issue my guess is they would have gotten most of what they wanted.
But what's happened here, because there is such a view that the President's power is infinite and unchecked by anybody first time ever a President has had those kinds of views they keep running into brick walls In this case a Supreme Court that has generally been sympathetic to executive power.
And so we 're going to have to not only look at this issue.
We 're going to have to go back to the other issues as well Because this ruling undercuts some of the other things the President has done.
But on giving the President what he needs and giving our country what we need to fight the war on terror there's going to be agreement.
Well let's break it down here Because this ruling does indicate to some human rights groups that this applies to the prisoners in secret CIA prisons to the prisoners in Afghanistan Beyond Guantanamo.
Are we going to see a flood of habeas corpus petitions now Senator McConnell?
Well I think clearly we 've got to act.
And I'm pleased to hear that Chuck thinks that we may be able to do this on a bipartisan basis.
I think it is important to note that this president has n't done anything with regard to enemy combatants that had n't been done by previous presidents.
The Court now has stepped eh eh into the field And said we must create these commissions.
Well we 're happy to do that.
And I'm hopeful it 'll be done on a bipartisan basis.
But I do n't think we 're going to pass something that's going to have our military servicemen uh subject uh to some kind of international rules.
Of course not.
But we are signatories to the Geneva Conventions.
Why should n't our servicemen be-
but the enemy is not a signatory to the Geneva Conventions.
So why should these uh terrorists uh be subjected uh to something they 're not signatories to?
The good news Andrea is that the Court particularly Breyer's decision said Congress could change the rules.
And we have to change the rules.
I do n't think there's disagreement on that.
And we will.
Security and liberty have a tenuous and careful balance in this republic.
It changes from time to time And should.
But the problem here again-
you 're right.
There 're going to be hundreds of court petitions.
This is going to create huge discombobulation.
We 're going to be far worse off than if the administration had come to Congress originally and gotten this done.
But and I do n't agree with Mitch here This view that the President has the sole right based on the use of military force doctrine when none of this was even discussed or mentioned is the wrong view.
and the Supreme Court said it.
Andrea could I just-
Senator McConnell should Guantanamo now just be closed?
No I d-I I-
Because it's just been such a black eye diplomatically.
what are we going to do with these people?
I mean we want them to free them so they can come kill us again?
Look I think the Congress is very very likely to give the President exactly what he thinks he needs to continue to fight the war on terror.
And it's important for all of us to remember that we have n't been attacked again here at home again since nine eleven.
That's not an accident.
It's not an accident.
The policies that we 've pursued are protecting us here at home.
But is this Court ruling a strong signal to the White House that it should now agree with Senator McCain Senator Lindsey Graham and others in your party who believe that it should go along with the Geneva Convention in terms of rules of the road for our soldiers?
I think Congress is going to be very reluctant to subject American military people to potential war crimes uh violations.
So John McCain is wrong on this?
Well we 'll see.
we 're looking for the administration's advice about what they need to fight the war on terror.
My guess is that the Congress is very likely to give the President what he thinks he needs the tools he thinks he needs to protect us here at home.
I do n't think it's quite that simple.
I think that there will be a careful looking again at what certain due process elements are that the Constitution and the Supreme Court has required in the past.
But giving the President the tool he needs yes.
But there's one other thing that ought to be done Andrea given the sweeping nature of this decision not so much on the specifics of what can be done But on how it ought to be done.
I 've sent a letter today to Attorney General Gonzales asking that they do a review now in light of this decision of all their other abrogations of power So we avoid this mess again two years later on these other issues Whether it's wire taps or anything else Where the administration just said unilaterally we can do whatever we want.
That is not how the United States works.
Well let me turn to another controversy which is the battle over national security leaks.
The House voted this week on a resolution condemning the publication by The New York Times and several other newspapers particularly though The New York Times.
Now the resolution said The House of Representatives expects the cooperation of all news media organizations in protecting the lives of Americans And the capability of the government to identify disrupt and capture terrorists by not disclosing classified intelligence programs such as the Terrorist Finance Tracking Program.
Representative Peter King a Republican of New York said If there is another terror attack the blood will be on their hands Meaning on the editors and reporters of The New York Times and elsewhere.
The President expressed anger over this.
Let's give a listen to that.
The disclosure of this program is disgraceful.
We 're at war with a bunch of people who want to hurt the United States of America.
And for people to leak that program and for a newspaper to publish it does great harm to the United States of America.
Senator Schumer on January first you said about an earlier leak regarding the NSA surveillance that quote Whenever classified information is leaked there ought to be an investigation because it could endanger our security.
Right.
So I would presume you now would agree with the President that this leak should also be investigated.
Well it certainly should be investigated.
But the President and others have gone way overboard.
How so?
um How so?
Look we believe in a free press in this country.
The press is often antagonistic or uh probing of people in power.
We all do n't like that.
But it's part of America.
And as a founding father said when they first wrote the Constitution true to this day that's a good thing for America.
There are exceptions.
One is if it harms national security.
Now all of these statements by the President and others are jumping the gun.
We do n't know if it's harmed national security.
In fact I 've been on the Banking Committee for six years.
It is broad public knowledge stated by administration officials-
Have you been briefed on this?
I have not been briefed privately on this program.
but we 've had people come before the Banking Committee uh publicly from Treasury and other departments.
the White House has made statements, others have made statements, that we monitor and track terrorist financing.
It's been successful.
Well.
So that you uh look at the reports, the terrorists do n't use the banks as much.
So to jump out front and just blast a newspaper that they may not like that to me is totally wrong.
it's the guilty verdict first.
And the trial.
uh Pat Roberts has called for an investigation.
Fine let it be a fair-
The head of the Senate Intelligence Committee.
Yeah.
Let it be a fair and down the middle investigation.
My guess It will find that national security was not compromised a jot.
Well let me pick up on-
because Treasury Secretary Snow took a group of reporters on a trip to Afghanistan and other parts of the world to show off how they were tracking terror financing.
So Senator McConnell do they want to have it both ways?
Do they want to brag about their success record in tracking this financing and at the same time yell and scream about the reporters when they print the source?
Well look I think the leaks are abominable.
And printing of the leaks is certainly trouble.
You can talk in general about what we 're doing without revealing the specifics.
And I think we all regret uh that the times and other publications chose to do that.
And uh I think the President essentially had it correctly.
Well let me show you a joint statement that was on the oped pages of both The New York Times and The Los Angeles Times yesterday.
The editors of those newspapers wrote the banking articles did not dwell on the operational or technical aspects of the program but on its sweep The questions about its legal basis and the issues of oversight.
We understand that honorable people may disagree with any of these choices to publish or not to publish.
But making those decisions is the responsibility that falls to editors A corollary to the great gift of our independence.
It is not a responsibility we take lightly.
And it is not one we can surrender to the government.
After that in fact The Wall Street Journal attacked The New York Times on its editorial pages Friday.
So this was clearly a response to that.
uh Even though the Journal had itself published uh the same story about terror financing in its news columns which is separate from its editorial pages.
Senator McConnell has the administration and its conservative supporters now embarked on a calculated campaign to demonize The New York Times and other newspapers but particularly The New York Times as a political calculus because it 'll help in the midterm elections?
Look eh eh newspapers are very very important in our country.
The media is important.
And we have a free press.
But the press is not responsible for our national security.
That's the responsibility of the President and the Department of Defense and the other agencies that look after us.
And I think it's important for the leaders of the principle outlets in the press in this country to be responsible.
And I do n't think uh this publishing of this kind of information is helpful.
And nor do I think it is necessary uh in um doing their job.
Andrea let me say a couple of things.
First you asked about a double standard.
There clearly is a double standard.
It's with the administration.
They leak things they want to leak.
And when the Plame leak came out there was no outrage.
there was no high dudgeon.
In fact regardless of the criminal standard which uh special prosecutor Fitzgerald is handling it's clear that there were leaks.
There's been no punishment no outcry etcetera.
I mean you ca n't have it both ways And use leaks when you want to And do n't use leaks when you do n't.
But there's a second point here.
When it comes to difficult situations and clearly Iraq now is one And uh this administration has a penchant for diversion and scapegoating.
And here's the good news the good news for America and I think the good news in many ways.
They 're going to have to solve the problem in Iraq.
They 're going to have to solve the problem in the war on terrorism where Afghanistan is deteriorating right now.
And I think the American people are tired and see through these diversions.
They want real solutions.
They want real progress.
Let's talk about real solutions Senator Because Democrats are sharply divided over Iraq.
Two weeks ago only thirteen Senate Democrats supported the Kerry-Feingold amendment by Senators Kerry and Feingold calling for an immediate withdrawal.
You were not one of them.
But as the party's Campaign Chairman for the Senate campaign does n't that amendment make Democrats look weak?
Not at all.
You know what our job is?
Look the President is Commander in Chief.
By the Constitution and everything else is in charge of Iraq.
He got us in there.
he's got to figure a way out.
our job is oversight.
Our job is holding people accountable.
so wait a second.
you 're going to the election to the voters in November.
Right.
Do n't you also have the job as Campaign Chairman for Democrats of presenting an alternative?
Let me say this.
I think what the American people want is for the Congress to hold the President's feet to the fire.
Now we did present an alternative The one that a vast majority of Democrats voted for including some who voted for the other one which said it was drafted by Senator Levin and Senator Jack Reed of Rhode Island.
And it basically said we 're going to tell the Iraqis in a period of time not public you do n't want to set a specific deadline that's what the resolution did n't like that we are not go this commitment is not open-ended and they better get their act together or they 're not going to keep us there.
But make no mistake about it Andrea.
A minority party in the Congress has a job.
The job is one of oversighting accountability.
We are not the Commander in Chief.
We are not in charge of all of those things.
No.
So to set guidelines, to set a general direction the way we did in the Reed-Levin amendment is correct.
I think what the American people are most upset about is the Republican Congress is not holding the President's feet to the fire at all.
But with all due respect when we talk about the politics of this Senator Chris Dodd who has said he's considering running for president said that in fact the Kerry-Feingold amendment hurts rather than helps the Democratic Party.
Oh I do n't buy that.
And this is what Senator Feingold said to Tim last week about those like yourself who voted against it.
I can tell you the one thing I'm sure of Tim is the American people have had it with this intervention.
They do want a timetable for bringing home the troops.
And the fact the United States Senate does n't get it should n't surprise you.
So the majority of the Democratic Senate is out of touch with the American people.
Yes it is at this point.
Those who vote against bringing the troops home do n't get it.
They 're not out there enough.
They 're not listening to the people.
How do you go to the people in November when Democrats do n't have an agreed upon policy in Iraq?
Very s--
But we do.
the vast majority of Democrats supported the Levin-Reed resolution which called for a year of transition And said tell the Iraqis it's not open-ended.
But I would say this.
The ball if you 're talking about the election in two thousand and six is in the President's court.
All of the debates in the Congress this resolution that resolution are going to pale in significance before how things are going in Iraq.
And the American people every poll shows and it's common sense hold the President responsible.
Senator McConnell let me ask you about something that you said during the first month of the war back in April of two thousand three.
American success in Iraq showed that armchair generals and New York Times reporters were wrong in their assessments of how difficult the war would be.
rebuilding Iraq will be much easier than rebuilding Afghanistan he said Because Iraq has a well educated population and the oil to finance reconstruction.
Iraq has the potential to be a jewel in the Middle East.
Was that a miscalculation on your part reflecting what the administration's miscalculation was?
Well certainly uh the taking of Iraq went as expected.
The aftermath has been much more difficult.
the fact that it's gone on a while creates the kind of debates the Democrats are having among themselves over whether we get out by the end of the year or get out by next summer or begin to get out at some point.
And people do become impatient.
But it's important to remember Andrea The most important thing.
We have n't been attacked again here since nine eleven.
We 've been on offense.
We 've invaded Afghanistan Invaded Iraq.
There 're democratic governments now in both places.
Is it easy there?
No it is n't.
But these are the same kinds of people who attacked us here in the United States.
They 've not been able to do that again because the President made the fundamentally correct decision to get on offense.
And we 've gone after these people Somewhere else Fighting them in places like Kabul and Baghdad so we do n't have to have them again in Washington and New York.
I think that's been a fundamentally sound decision.
I think we 're succeeding.
Let me briefly turn to immigration.
uh Gentlemen there is now talk of a possible compromise which would have a two step process where you would delay guest workers for two years perhaps As long as that But first do the border security.
uh Senator McConnell you 've been trying to support the White House.
But is this something where you and the Senate Republicans could move toward the House position and come up with something before the end of the year?
Well I 'd rather have a comprehensive bill than not.
and I think it needs to tilt toward uh border security.
uh We 're in the process of beefing up border security anyway through our appropriations process Whether or not we 're able to achieve a comprehensive immigration settlement.
But we 're better to have this bill than not.
And my preference is-
And Senator Schumer I see you 're nodding in agreement.
Yeah.
I mean the problem here Mitch McConnell Chuck Schumer George Bush supported the bill that came out of the Senate.
But you 'd rather have something than nothing.
It's a tough bill.
and it's a fair bill.
But here's what's happening.
you know there's a wing of the Republican Party that does n't want that bill.
They tend to be more in the House than the Senate.
And they 're trying to hold things up.
They 're having these hearings.
Well we 've had hearing hearing hearing.
But now it looks like we may shortcircuit that.
The American people want a solution.
Senator Schumer as you well know in Connecticut your colleague and friend and former vice-presidential candidate Joe Lieberman has a heated primary race on his hands against anti-war candidate Ned Lamont.
Now let me show you a bit of a new ad that the Lamont campaign is airing which morphs Joe Lieberman with uh pictures of President Bush.
Joe Lieberman on the Iraq war.
We are now at a point where the war in Iraq is a war of necessity.
Joe Leiberman may say he represents us.
But if it talks like George W Bush and acts like George W Bush it's certainly not a Connecticut Democrat.
Okay as Campaign Chairman will you now today commit to supporting whoever wins that Democratic primary in Connecticut where he is now facing that uh tough challenge?
Well let me say this Andrea.
Harry Reid myself the Democratic Senate Campaign Committee in this primary are supporting Joe Lieberman.
And we 're doing everything we can to help him.
I'm not going to speculate on what happens after the primary Because we believe Joe Leiberman is going to win.
And I'm not going to undermine my candidate by speculating about what might happen afterwards.
We think he's going to win.
And we 're supporting him in the primaries.
You 're supporting him even though his position on the war is completely contrary to most Democrats?
Well again the Democratic Party is united in holding the President's feet to the fire on oversight.
But why wo n't you commit today to supporting Joe Lieberman the former vice-presidential nominee?
But-
Because-
You 're basically saying that you will support the Democrat whoever wins?
I am saying that we are supporting Joe Lieberman in the primary.
But only for the primary.
And we 're not going to speculate about things afterwards.
Because that undermines your candidate.
We 're supporting Joe.
He's going to win.
Are you suggesting that you might not support the Democratic winner?
as I said I am not going to speculate on the future Because we 're for Joe Leiberman in this primary.
We 're talking about what the definition of is is here.
But-
Well there you go.
So Joe Lieberman up through the primary.
and then he's on his own?
We 're not speculating after the primary.
What if he runs as an independent?
We 're not speculating after the primary.
It does n't make sense.
When you have a candidate you 're supporting you do n't say what happens if he does n't win?
Andrea?
Yes.
Could I just say this illustrates the nature of the Democrat's problem.
weigh in on this one.
I'm sure you 'll want to.
Weigh in.
Joe Lieberman voted against all of their cut-and-run proposals All of them.
He supports the President in his war on terror And in the uh Iraqi uh chapter of that.
And it creates a real dilemma.
The Democrats are obviously totally divided on the issue of how to handle the war on terror.
Well let me help you get off the-
Andrea wait.
I do n't agree with that.
If you look at every poll who do the American people have more faith in in terms of Iraq?
It's the Democrats.
Who do the American people-
Do they want to see a change in direction in Iraq?
Absolutely.
But Senator-
And I think they respect the fact that Democrats do have divisions And are debating this And not just marching in lockstep to whatever the President does Because they 're not happy with what the President is doing.
This debate that Chuck and I are having-
And that's going to help us.
This debate that Chuck and I are having is likely to be the big issue in the fall campaign.
We 're going to have this debate with the American people.
Speaking of debates and rivalries Roll Call Newspaper reports Senator Schumer that you and your fellow New York senator Hillary Clinton have such an intense rivalry that this week you and Harry Reid your Democratic leader rather tried to exclude her from a news conference to announce one of her pet issues.
um Is it that intense the rivalry between you and Hillary Clinton?
No it's absolutely journalistic chatter.
Ted Kennedy's been our leader on minimum wage.
Hillary Clinton came up with a great idea Tie minimum wage to the pay increase.
So why did n't you schedule the news conference when she could show up?
and Harry Reid-
As we did.
And she showed up.
And then we had another one where she showed up.
Harry Reid as our leader has done a very good thing here.
He has said that as a party we 're going to support Hillary's idea that there be no pay raise until there's a minimum wage increase.
And we 've had two news conferences. um with Hillary Ted Kennedy Harry and myself.
It's worked out extremely well.
Let me cut to the chase here.
If she announces that she's running for president will you do what is customary and support your fellow New York senator for president of the United States?
Is that what-
Hillary Clinton is running for the Senate of the United States of New York.
She is doing a great job running.
We spent all day Friday together going through the flood uh torn areas.
Will you support her for president if she chooses to run for president?
And she is focused on New York.
I will wait till after she wins for the Senate to decide what to do.
But if she announces that she's going to run for president will you support her?
Well let's let her announce first.
All right.
Well we 're going to have to leave it right there.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Senator Schumer Senator McConnell.
and happy Independence Day to both of you.
Thank you.
Same to you.
And coming next freedom of the press versus national security.
Our round table with radio host and author Bill Bennett William Safire of The New York Times Dana Priest of The Washington Post and John Harwood of The Wall Street Journal.
All coming up on Meet the Press.
Our round table on balancing press freedoms and national security after this brief station break.
Welcome all.
Well first the firestorm over leaks.
uh For years the President and the Treasury have been trumpeting their success in following terror money.
So Bill Bennett what is the harm in what The New York Times and other newspapers did last week in publishing their stories?
Well there are a lot of people who are saying there's a lot of harm.
Ask the Undersecretary of the Treasury Stuart Levy who is very upset about it.
Ask the Secretary of the Treasury departing secretary Secretary Snow.
Ask Tom Kean and Lee Hamilton the co-chairmen of the Nine Eleven Commission.
They 're not exactly Bush uh uh camp followers.
Tom Kean said in an interview, he said, a very successful program which has been very successful in the war against terror has been lost compromised because of this.
Well is n't it true that in fact this program was hinted at in the Nine Eleven Commission report?
And both NBC analyst Roger Cressey who is a former national security official and his fellow former NSC officer Richard Clarke said that no harm was done.
Let's look at what they wrote in The New York Times about this.
Wildly overblown are the Bush administration's protests that the press revelations about the financial monitoring program may tip off the terrorists.
They want the public to believe that it had not already occurred to every terrorist on the planet that his telephone was probably monitored and his international bank transfers subject to scrutiny.
How gullible does the administration take the American citizenry to be?
Bill Safire does the press have an obligation-
Well-
is that it?
Is that it for me?
No.
Stand by.
I want to ask Bill Safire to weigh in on this.
Well here we are-
Bill Does the press have an obligation to print or not in this case?
And were they giving away state secrets?
Look uh I do n't speak for the Times.
I 've been in the Times for thirty years disagreeing with Times editorial policy right down the line.
On this one I think they did the right thing.
Here we are on Independence Day weekend Two hundred and thirty years ago celebrating what was the resistance to a king who said we 're going to hang you for treason.
And here we have a Long Island congressman happens to be named King who's saying treason and put these reporters in jail.
uh I think there's a big fundamental thing going on here now uh and uh across the board of get the press get the media.
And uh look I used to write speeches for Spiro Agnew.
uh uh uh I'm hip to this stuff.
uh uh and I can say that it gives you a blip.
uh it gives you a chance to get on the offensive against the darned media.
But uh in the long view of history it's a big mistake.
But is it the-
This is what I do n't get.
The people who killed three thousand Americans on September eleven who murdered Danny Pearl my colleague at The Wall Street Journal commit atrocities every day in Iraq are evil.
But they 're not stupid.
And I do n't understand the logic that says all of a sudden they 've discovered something they did n't know.
September twenty-fourth two thousand one President Bush walked into the Rose Garden and announced we 've developed a strategy.
We 're putting banks and financial institutions around the world uh on notice.
We 'll work with their governments freeze or block terrorist's money.
uh We 're going to work with the United Nations the EU the GB to follow this money.
But John what Bill Bennett would say to you is that they did n't know about the so called @SWIFT program.
How-
They did n't know the specifics.
Bill-
Well where did we think that they think we 're looking for money?
Well why did they get caught on two thousand and three rather than two years earlier when the program was announced?
I know we have an air marshals program.
But I do n't know which marshal is on which plane.
Yeah we established a democracy.
we oppose a king.
We have a president of the United States.
let me go back two hundred years.
James Wilson said the press will be free.
No prior restraint on the press.
However when they err, when they are irresponsible they should be held accountable.
Now you put Richard Clarke up against Lee Hamilton and Tom Kean.
I'm sorry.
Richard Clarke has a thing against this administration.
that's pretty clearly known.
Tom Kean said the details of a valuable program were lost.
Well he worked for a while in this administration.
Lee Hamilton said the same thing.
Jack Murtha.
these again are not cat's paws of this administration being The New York Times not to run this piece.
You know Andrea the administration every time there's a national security story they do n't want published they say it will damage national security.
Yes Dana?
But for one thing they 've never given us any proof.
They say it will stop cooperation.
but the fact is that the countries of the world understand that they have to cooperate on counter-terrorism.
And just like the banks that did not pull out of the system other countries continue to cooperate.
But Dana-
Have we heard that they 're pulling out from this system?
Because it's a common problem.
I do n't think so.
Dana let me point out that The Washington Post your newspaper was behind the others but also did publish this story.
And a story you wrote last year disclosing the secret CIA prisons won the Pulitzer Prize.
But it also led to William Bennett sitting here saying that three reporters who won the Pulitzer Prize you for that story and Jim Risen and others for another story were not worthy of an award but rather worthy of jail.
Dana how do you plead?
Well um it's not a crime to publish classified information.
And this is one of the things Mr. Bennett keeps telling people that it is.
But in fact there are some narrow categories of information you ca n't publish Certain signals communications intelligence the names of covert operatives and nuclear secrets.
Now why is n't it a crime?
I mean some people would like to make casino gambling a crime.
But it is not a crime.
Why is n't it not a crime?
Because the framers of the Constitution wanted to protect the press so that they could perform a basic role in government oversight.
And you ca n't do that.
Look at the criticism that the press got after Iraq that we did not do our job on WMD.
And that was all in a classified arena.
To do a better job and I believe that we would 've done a better job we would 've again found ourselves in the arena of-
But we 've now had a steady drum beat from the White House all week about this as you 've pointed out.
Here's what the President and the Vice President have been saying on the stump at campaign events.
Last week the details of this program appeared in the press.
There can be no excuse for anyone entrusted with vital intelligence to leak it. And no excuse for any newspaper to print it.
The leaks to The New York Times and the publishing of those leaks is very damaging.
What is doubly disturbing for me is that not only have they gone forward with these stories but they 've been rewarded for it for example in the case of the terrorist surveillance program by being awarded the Pulitzer Prize for outstanding journalist.
I think that is a uh disgrace.
John is this policy of trying to use the press as a whipping boy uh going to work to excite the conservative base and to turn voters out in the midterm elections?
Well Republicans certainly think so.
if you 're a Republican in the White House or in Congress would you rather talk about immigration gas prices the estate tax all the things that you ca n't get done right now.
or would you rather go after The New York Times the Supreme Court on the Guantanamo ruling we 'll talk about that later and make hay and say They 're tying our hands in the war on terrorism?
It's obvious they 'd rather do the latter.
And they love this discussion.
They 're going to love it even more if Congress takes up uh legislation on Guantanamo.
this is clearly not something new.
Let me show you a tape from nineteen ninety two.
Here's my favorite bumper sticker of all Annoy the medias, re-elect Bush.
And the Democrats of course also do this.
This is how the Boston Globe covered a Howard Dean for president campaign rally back in two thousand four.
Dean told a crowd of supporters that his campaign was a struggle between us and the Washington politicians and the established press.
Bill Safire what does this remind you of?
It reminds me of a piece that I did back in the Carter administration where I wrote that Billy Carter the President's brother was overheard talking many times with the Libyan Embassy.
uh And the White House got very excited about that.
Why?
Because they said the Libyans did n't know that we had a tap eh on their embassy.
Now that struck everybody in Washington as totally foolish Because for the last fifty years every single embassy in this town is bugged.
uh Now here's the President say that who knew that the details of this program?
Now let me refresh all of our memories about something else that had happened.
take a look at this piece of film.
In the United States today we have more than our share of the nattering nabobs of negativism.
Okay.
Now whose alliterative phrase was nattering nabobs of negativism Mr. Safire?
Well uh Mr. Agnew was kind enough to credit me with that afterwards uh because I'm an alliteration nut.
This was when you were the speechwriter in the White House.
uh Right.
and uh I was on loan to uh Agnew for that speech.
I did n't write the Des Moines speech uh Pat Buchanan did that Where he really zapped the press.
And again uh the Nixon administration in that case uh got a leg up.
And people said Hey yeah we 're angry at not just Nixon.
We 're angry at the Congress.
And we 're angry at the media.
can I-
So the point is the tension between the media and the government is long-standing.
And that's to be expected.
And in fact all these many of the people getting up to lambaste the media now are also people that we talk to with our stories to vet our stories to say What is it in this story that you 're most concerned about?
You mean to hold things back?
To hold things back.
In the prison story we talked with the administration.
No one in the administration asked us not to publish the story.
In fact people said we know you have your job to do.
but please do n't publish the names of the countries where the prisons are located.
So there is a reasoned dialogue that often goes on between the media and the government behind all this.
That was not the case with the NSA surveillance stories.
That's correct.
can I say something Because I'm being quoted and talked about But I'm right here.
You know I'm right here.
I can make my own case.
Well please weigh in.
Alright now you g--
uh Bennett.
you got three people on one side.
You got me on the other side.
And let me just state my position.
It's not time to break out the champagne and the Pulitzers.
This is not about politics Not from my perspective.
It's about the United States of America and the security of the United States of America.
The difference is the government was elected.
People may not like the Bush administration.
But they were elected.
And they are entitled to due consideration on these matters.
The American people in fact believe in a free press as I do.
And I do n't believe in prior restraint of the press.
But the American people are saying if you listen to them in very very large and consistent numbers--.
And an awful lot of people across the board are saying this is four times now four times in eight months.
Dana Priest's story the uh uh uh Security Agency monitoring story the USA Today story about data mining.
Oh sorry they tell us on Friday We maybe got that wrong.
Our sources were wrong.
Well wait a second.
The story was n't wrong.
What they apologized for is that one of the companies or two of the companies did not have contracts.
Two of the companies.
Big big part of the story.
But that the information was still being-
Yeah.
The program was still valid.
But the fundamental part of the story-
big big big part of the story they got wrong.
All right check your facts when you 're running a front page.
I have.
when they 're running front page USA Today needs to check its facts.
and now this story uh on the @SWIFT.
And people are saying is there a competition here?
Which no one has denied.
No no one has denied it.
Except the people at Treasury and again Tom Kean are saying this thing has now destroyed the capacity of our program.
Again the difference is the government of the United States was elected to protect our security.
It is n't always in the service of security to leak.
Katharine Graham in The New York Times today Katharine Graham cites a very interesting example in nineteen eighty three where she said the press went too far.
It reported about secret communications between Syrian terrorists and uh their Iranian bosses which led later she said to the deaths of two hundred and forty Marines.
This can happen.
We are in war.
You know I heartily appreciate your talking on behalf of all the American people.
This is classified-
I'm not.
Because when my stories ran I received many many people thanking me.
I'm talking about a lot of the American-
Wait.
let me finish.
Let me finish.
you do n't want to put this to an opinion poll.
Because they thought that they went-
including active duty four star generals.
You do not want to do this on an opinion poll.
can I just-
Some people think that the administration has gone too far in some of the counterterrorism measures they 've taken And that some of the things that we are revealing are creating a debate that could not have happened before.
Yeah and the shutting down of prisons.
And countries that say-
The prisons have been moved.
They have not been shut down.
That's a big difference.
That's a different-
Bill Safire weigh in here.
Let me respond to um the point he's making that who elected the media to determine what should be secret and what should not?
Which is the fundamental point.
Right.
And the answer to that is the Founding Fathers did.
uh They came up with this Bill of Rights beyond which uh the constitutional convention would not move unless there were a First Amendment to challenge the government just as the American Founding Fathers challenged the British government.
Right.
Now it's not treasonable It's not even wrong, for the press to say we 're going to find out what we can.
and we 'll act as a check and balance on the government.
Sometimes we 'll make mistakes.
Sometimes the government will mistake.
Is it wrong for the government to go after the press when the press has gone too far?
sometimes even the uh Supreme Court admits to making mistakes.
Should the press be held responsible if it's gone too far?
Should the press be held responsible if it's gone too far?
John Harwood.
Free speech helps everybody.
Judy Miller went to jail for eighty five days.
There was not a big hue and cry about that.
Now let me agree with you.
Was there?
No.
Let me agree with you for a moment.
I believe that public opinion is much closer to Bennett on this point than some of the other uh members of the press in the discussion.
After Dana wrote her story about secret prisons we asked in our Wall Street Journal NBC poll do you think the administration has gone too far in handling terror suspects overseas, or is it taking the right approach?
Fifty-five to thirty the American people said they 've taken the right approach.
But the press is never popular and most notably now.
Exactly so.
And the American people are not overly concerned at this moment about the finest points of civil liberties on this.
Secondly I accept that Bill Bennett is not motivated by politics in his views on this.
However when you talk privately to Republicans on the Hill, why did we have a debate for a couple of days on the Hill about this resolution that had no force of law whatsoever about The New York Times?
They 'll tell you it was politics.
They love having this discussion.
They want it to go on as long as possible.
Well we 're still talking about basic right and wrong here.
And is there any question that people-
I think I'm the only one here who signed a nondisclosure agreement when I was Director of National Drug Control Policy.
Maybe some of you have.
It's a pretty serious matter.
People who signed those agreements in government have violated the law.
they have violated their oath.
They have done so by talking to Dana Priest talking to Risen and talking to Lichtblau.
let me-
We need to get after those people.
And one way to get after those people is to talk to the reporters.
Oh you 're saying get after them.
That means threatening reporters and threaten them with contempt and put them in jail.
Bill what let me ask Bill-
Absolutely absolutely.
And that's wrong.
Why is that wrong Bill?
Why are they above the law?
Because it's a big step toward tyranny which is what we 're supposed to be withholding.
Because they 're affected.
It is n't a step toward tyranny.
And what about the @AIPAC guys?
Is that a step toward tyranny?
They 're being prosecuted under the Espionage Act.
Bill Safire let me ask you a question about The New York Times.
Is n't that more a step toward tyranny?
There are a lot of people who believe The New York Times in doing this latest story is motivated by an antibody animus.
Is The New York Times making a decision that is political rather than editorial?
The New York Times like The Wall Street Journal has a wall of separation between its editorial voice and its front page and its news coverage.
And that's always been the case.
Now does it uh always stay exactly the same?
when you drive down that road it is always right?
No it changes.
But in this case uh I am certain, I'm really certain, that the editorial position of The New York Times about the war which I completely disagree with did not affect its coverage of the news.
let me show you a Wall Street Journal editorial very unusual editorial that was uh in the paper on Friday.
it said that the problem with The New York Times is that millions of Americans no longer believe that its editors would make those calculations in anything close to good faith.
We certainly do n't.
On issue after issue it has become clear that The Times believes the US is not really at war.
And in any case the Bush administration lacks the legitimacy to wage it.
John I do n't want to really put you on the spot here.
But I am.
Your paper's news columns also ran this story.
And here you have this editorial.
uh it really is uh a really sharp conflict.
Couple of points on that.
First of all that editorial was n't kidding when they said there's a separation between the news and the editorial pages at The Wall Street Journal.
That's for sure.
Same with us.
Secondly there is a very large gap between the ideological outlook and philosophy of The New York Times editorial page and The Wall Street Journal editorial page.
There is not a large ideological gap between the news staffs of those two places.
And why would there be?
Some of the top people of The New York Times were hired from The Wall Street Journal.
What I found shocking about the editorial was the assertion that The New York Times did not act in good faith in making that judgment.
I do n't know anybody on the news staff of The Wall Street Journal that believes that.
I certainly do n't.
Let's turn to Guantanamo and the Supreme Court.
What is the political fallout John from the Guantanamo decision?
is this something that can actually work in the administration's favor because it pits the Court according to the talk show hosts the last couple of days on the side of al-Qaeda?
It's embarrassing uh internationally.
It isolates the United States.
It's a setback for the administration's philosophy.
Politically I think they could come out ahead on this In part because as we just heard Mitch McConnell and Chuck Schumer say the US uh Congress is going to take up very soon legislation giving the President this authority.
That's a good subject for Republicans to be on.
Dana what is it costing us diplomatically?
Guantanamo.
Huge.
which is the point not just on Guantanamo But all of these programs.
You know we are covering the war on terror.
It's a classified war.
why are we covering it?
Because we want to figure out whether the government is going to achieve its strategic goals which is to defeat terrorism and to compete in the realm of ideology.
It's not just the tactical question.
And on Guantanamo this has cost us a lot internationally as a defender a primary defender of human rights.
And you have to take those things into consideration when you 're trying to win a war.
Bill Safire should the administration take this as a cue to just shut Guantanamo or accept the John McCain approach now towards?
No I think uh the administration should follow the guideline that the Supreme Court has suggested which is go to Congress and get some kind of solid guidelines on what should happen.
Wonderful thing here.
Really a wonderful thing in the last week.
Here's a Supreme Court which put George W Bush in the presidency uh only six years ago Now pulling him up short and saying hey you got to get some oversight.
you got to get some congressional backing uh before you can do this kind of thing.
And as you just saw in the beginning of this program these two senators who disagree about so much uh pretty much signaled you bet.
first we 'll hear from the President.
And he 'll backtrack.
And he 'll say this is what kind of a military commission we need.
And they 'll keep Guantanamo.
They 'll keep uh the most dangerous terrorists there.
And we 'll have these military commissions.
And uh they 'll set a good pattern for the next president And hopefully not the next war.
Andrea the other thing this does politically is underscore the arguments of conservatives of why it's important to change the Court.
You had Scalia Thomas Alito siding with the administration.
and the administration was saying we need some more conservatives.
The last word to you Bill Bennett.
We only have about fifteen thirty seconds.
Yeah I agree with Bill Safire.
It's uh in Congress's court now.
And they need to act on it.
But I do n't agree with Bill Safire that the press has a right not to give testimony in a criminal trial.
They are not above the law.
And when you show your Pentagon Papers case please read Justice Blackmail's decision.
He said no prior restraint.
But if people get hurt, if people get killed as a result of this the press is responsible.
So the issue is whether people are hurt by something that had arguably been previously disclosed.
That's correct.
I disagree completely.
You 're not above the law.
I will respect his right to disagree.
Okay.
Well we are going to have to leave it there.
Happy Independence Day on these themes of July fourth and our founders.
Thank you all.
And coming next our Meet The Press Minute Reflecting that landmark Supreme Court decision thirty five years ago balancing national security and freedom of the press.
And we are back.
On Sunday morning June thirteenth nineteen seventy one the front page of The New York Times featured a photo of a smiling President Nixon escorting his daughter Tricia on her wedding day.
But the middle of the front page contained a story that through a strange chain of events would lead to a landmark Supreme Court case on press freedoms And eventually to the Watergate scandal and Nixon's own resignation.
The headline read Vietnam Archive Pentagon Study Traces three Decades of Growing US Involvement.
The person who leaked the classified Pentagon Papers to The New York Times was defense analyst Daniel Ellsberg.
He appeared on Meet The Press several years later.
And on that occasion he spoke about the case that changed history.
Mr. Ellsberg whatever else you may have accomplished or not accomplished by disclosing the Pentagon Papers many people I believe including you felt that your trial would help establish some ground rules or answer some questions about the security classification system uh government secrecy freedom of the press.
uh do you think it's done so.
or did the way it ended just leave all those questions just hanging in the air as much as they were before?
I do n't think they 'll ever again try to convince an American jury that historical documents of the kind in the Pentagon Papers even if they are stamped Top secret could damage the national interest And thus come under the espionage laws.
Mr. Ellsberg wise men made the point centuries ago that liberty without order is anarchy.
If every person with official access to classified information took it upon himself to decide what should be made public how could orderly government be maintained?
That's a constant problem.
It can never be an easy one.
They 'll never be able to reveal such things without risking their jobs if their superiors do n't want it revealed.
Because of our involvement in Vietnam and because of what has happened at the Pentagon Papers and the Watergate case a great many of our youth have lost faith in our institutions.
Have you?
I never did.
and I'm glad to say right now I have never had more hope Not based on faith but on evidence of what I see these days that our government is functioning.
Our government is not the President.
The government is not the executive branch.
Those other branches of government are functioning to protect us from abuses by the executive branch.
And they have never functioned better in our history.
And we 'll be right back.
That's all for today.
Tim Russert will be back next week at a special earlier time eight am Eastern right before the Wimbledon finals.
Check out our Web site during the week for air times in your area MTP dot MSNBC dot com.
Have a wonderful July fourth a safe weekend.
and if it's Sunday it's Meet The Press.