Yes, yesterday the Real Estate Lease Law number 87 for the year 79 was under discussion by members of Parliament.
What did the comments and positions of the members focus on, particularly in regard to Paragraph 14 of Article 19 ?
Yes, in the Name of God Most Merciful Most Compassionate, this is a law that existed at the time of the former regime.
The validity of a previous law that pertains to leasing contracts between tenants and landlords or owners, was going to end the protection period for the tenant, so to speak, in 2004.
However, at the beginning of 2004, following the military operations, it was a period of occupation, and the Ruling Council deemed it appropriate to extend it for two more years, which ended this year, in 2006.
Today, the Assembly is discussing this issue and wants to extend it another year or two, since the abnormal conditions today in Iraq are not appropriate to impose rates for house leases as they are at the market rate, particularly with respect to the residential aspect.
This, of course, does n't affect the commercial aspect.
Uh, and consequently, there was, uh, uh, fiery debate in the Council of Representatives.
Some see it on the basis that people are in control of their money.
There is a right of the landlord, a right of the owner, and some houses have leases at a meager rate, an old rate, uh, before the rate of the dinar increased or was at today's exchange rate.
People's economic standard rose over the past three or four years, and consequently, we must reconsider, since the law includes a review of the leases.
The other side sees, and this was our point of view really, that the economic situation today in Iraq is a deplorable situation.
According to the official statistics that the Iraqi state has, about 40 percent of the people are at or below the poverty line, and this is a very high proportion.
Therefore, these people do not have the capabilities of paying I mean, high rental fees.
There has to be sufficient protection for him by the state.
Housing projects have to be provided by the state to the weak, incapable social classes.
These projects have not been provided so far.
Uh, and there is also another problem that was recently added, which is the problem of sectarian criminal displacement.
Yes, doctor.