Well, the latest information is that there is a problem in the area of Arab Al-Barbir neighborhood, uh, about 50 people entered the area who were apparently returning from the sit-in or going to it, to the neighborhood.
And there were problems that occurred in the beginning with the residents and with, and there was smashing of cars but the army arrived on the scene and it seems that at that moment, it began controlling the situation.
Yes, but the opposition is accusing you that you are provoking those demonstrators ; how do you respond ?
I mean, do you have according to the investigations any information, especially about the victim who was killed yesterday in the Qasqas area ?
with respect to the victim may God bless his soul, the prime minister was with him, uh, and he was, I mean, a victim of all that is happening and a victim of all Lebanon, uh, and consequently, uh, there is a military investigation being conducted by the military court and those details of the investigation are in the hands of the military judiciary and in the hands of the Lebanese army with everyone.
there is no doubt about that subject.
Uh, there are also no details, the site of the shooting, it seems that it came from a remote unidentified direction, uh, and specifically no one can level an accusation at any group.
And unfortunately, what was said on Al-Manar station that the militia, uh, of the Future, first of all we have no militia and no gunmen, and we in the Future Movement have never used weapons or given weapons to anyone.
And everyone knows that, and there is one armed party in all this mess, uh, in the Lebanese interior.
in regard to the provocations, this is a strange and amazing thing.
I mean, if we take the outcome from the clashes that took place, uh, over the past 24 hours, especially yesterday evening, we see where they take place and who suffers the damage, we discover uh, that they occur more in the regions with a majority belonging to the Future Movement politically or to March 14, and not in the regions that are affiliated with any of, uh, the March 8 followers.
Therefore, it is clear who is making these provocations and who causes the damage.
There is no decision ; it seems that taking to the street is not as safe as it has been announced.
Yes.