The Rams Road is considered one of the tourist landmarks in the city of Luxor which is frequented by tourists from various nationalities to learn about Egyptian civilization dating back thousands of years.
At this time, the implementation of the project of re-opening the Rams Road, which links the two temples of Luxor with the temple of Karnak, has begun.
Ahmed Noweir got to know the landmarks of the Rams Road.
While it has been described as the largest archeological cultural project in the Middle East, the implementation of the project of re-opening and building the Rams Road in the city of Luxor has begun.
That road, which links the two temples of Luxor and Karnak and on which the sacred processions of the kings would march during the ceremonies of the Pharaonic era, it was initially built by the kings of Pharaonic Egypt in Thebes 5,000 years ago and is two kilometers and 700 meters long.
Presumed to exist along the road are one thousand two hundred statues that were sculpted in two forms, one in the form of the Sphinx and the second in the form of the body of a ram.
With the re-opening of the Rams Road, tourists will be able to walk from the temple of Luxor to the temple of Karnak, and Luxor will be transformed into the largest open air museum in the world.
evidently this road was covered and people built over it, and uh, when we thought about it, uh, really, I mean, if not for the assistance of Her Excellency the Minister Fayza Aboul Naga, just so that everyone gets credit in Egypt and knows who did what, she gave us this financial assistance of 240 million pounds.
Without that, this road would have remained for eternity, and then it would broken up and been covered.
So she gave us this support, with which we compensated the residents who were on it, the land, we built them other new residences instead.
So now we have seen the result which is, with God's help, that we dug and found the rams intact,
and uh, re-opening the Rams Road will turn Luxor into the largest open air museum in the world.
The tourist arrives in the temple of Luxor and walks on the Rams Road until Karnak in the same ancient Pharaonic procession of the Pharaohs.
The total cost of the project is 240 million Egyptian pounds, a grant from the Ministry of International Cooperation.
The execution of 200 meters of the road has begun as a prototype segment of the entire road with the same form.
something wonderful, and something that ought to make every Egyptian inside feel uh, I mean, a unique feeling, uh, first of pride and glory in our history, our ruins and the creativity that has existed for more than 5,000 years.