With me from Mogadishu is our correspondent Fahd Yassin.
Fahd, you are in Mogadishu ; what's the latest information you have received so far ?
Uh, the latest information that we received so far is that these battles between the two sides, uh, started after the Friday prayers and they started exactly in a place known, a small village called Safar Nooley, said to be 80 kilometers away from Dinsor in the direction of Baidoa.
Uh, however, the news from the transitional government says that the battles were actually in places close to the city of Dinsor.
And the battles were very fierce and lasted more than two hours, uh, we had tried to communicate with the cities close to it, but because communications from that city were cut off for more than a week, it hindered uh, that we find detailed news or eyewitnesses in that city.
Uh, but a short while ago, and according to a communication with one of the officials in the Islamic Courts, Mr. Mukhtar Abu Mansour, who is the representative of the Security Office of the Islamic Courts, he says that the battle is over and that they were able to control, uh, that village.
Uh, and we asked him, is it the city of Dinsor, that is, is any of the city of Dinsor in their hands ?
He added that this city is still in their hands, uh, but the transitional government side is still insisting that the battle is ongoing at this moment and that it is on the outskirts of the town of Dinsor.
Fahd, a few, uh, days ago also, uh, the situation was still the same and communications were cut off as they still are in Dinsor, uh, but at the time, the government said that it had regained control over it, and as a result, uh, this dispute could still be going on till now, each side saying that it has controlled it, right ?
This is true, because the problem in this city, uh, even the situation in Somalia, if such a war had occurred, the news would have reached us as fast as possible, but because communications are cut off from that city, uh, the news remains, because it is a marginal city given the location of the city.
And so, uh, days ago, as you and I said, the government was saying it had recaptured, but today uh the situation happened again and the Islamic Courts and the forces of the transitional government are still fighting each other on the outskirts of the city, the city of Dinsor.
Uh, but the Islamic Courts, as I told you, the battle is outside the city of Dinsor at a distance of 40 kilometers in the direction of the city of Baidoa.
Fahd Yassin, Al Jazeera correspondent, from Mogadishu, thank you very much.