Um, I think that the police should all have their own district of jurisdiction.
Uh-huh.
If he's going to leave your, this, district of jurisdiction, there might be some problems when making an arrest.
It wo n't be as, this, convenient as in your own jurisdiction.
Ah, it 'll be troublesome.
Yes, yes, yes.
What do you do when you encounter such a situation.
I would have the security guards follow him and conceal myself well.
I myself, eh, am a plain-clothes policeman, so I would carry my work ID and wait somewhere he would show up.
Uh-huh.
Do n't move.
I took out my work ID from my pocket, see, I'm a policeman,
I am the local regional police officer here.
Well, I am the regional police officer for the something, something police post controlled in the West End.
What are you doing here.
I'm not doing anything.
That's not right.
One look at you tells me you 're up to no good.
Uh, I 've been watching you.
You 've been eyeing that lady's pocket, that satchel.
Are you planning to steal it.
Are you carrying a knife.
I'm not carrying a knife.
not good enough.
I have to search you.
So I quickly searched him.
There is a technique to this.
Doing the search I verified that he was carrying a tool used for criminal acts.
At this point, I did n't stop.
My eyebrows did n't move.
I did n't have any feeling.
Uh-huh.
ah, I quickly patted him down.
I do this everyday.
It was an awl, then I continued working downward.
I worked downward, working toward the shoes, moving toward the pant legs, lifting the pant legs, and then taking off the shoes and pulling out the cushions inside the shoes.
Uh-huh, nothing.
There was really nothing.
Uh-huh, well, I see that you do n't look like a good person still, right.
You see that.
It's Haidian, Uh.
This is my stomping ground, ah.
So go to there.
When you 're there, I do n't care what you want to do.
Uh, go, go.
Ha, so in this way he was eh, coaxed back.
Yes, he was coaxed back.
After he was coaxed back, he again took his original path.
Uh-huh.
Then when he was caught, his entire process was filmed with a DV machine.
And is he still on your turf.
This version of events given on the spot will make ordinary people feel extremely happy.