Haj Hussein Al-Khalil, Political Assistant to the Hezbollah Secretary General, revealed during a special interview with Al-Alam Channel that Lebanese Prime Minister Fouad Siniora demanded from Hezbollah to hand over its weapons, and that was at the time of the last Israeli aggression on Lebanon, or else the Cabinet would have to issue its orders to the security forces to seize the party's weapons.
That day we were discussing means of confrontation, how we should deal with the existing aggression, and how we should deal with the international resolutions that were still existing draft resolutions.
Em.
And there he was, Prime Minister Siniora, proposing in front of everyone, I mean, that if we want to get out of this war, so Haj, you only have to obey that Hezbollah should hand over its weapons.
Em.
I told him okay, and other than that what other option do we have ?
He said other than that option, the Cabinet, if you do not want to hand them over, I mean, voluntarily, then the Cabinet will convene, the Council of Ministers, and demand ah and we give authorization to the Lebanese army to perform break-ins and it would confiscate the weapons without you having to hand them over, I mean, by hand.
Yes.
Al-Khalil said that Speaker of the Lebanese Parliament Nabih Berri, who was present, responded to Siniora at the time, surprised at the pressured timing to disarm the resistance.
I remember that day Speaker Nabih Berri, confronting him and telling him, Prime Minister, oh brother, in the Israeli kibbutzes that are in northern Palestine, the Israeli peasant farmer carries his weapon, his RPG, the gun and the bomb on the agricultural tractor, present, and you are coming now demanding us to disarm the resistance or to hand over the resistance weapons, no.
I commented on the words of the Prime Minister, and I told him : Mr. Fouad Siniora, Prime Minister, by God it is a shame and a disgrace that you ask us, you give us two options, either to hand over our weapons while we are in the peak of battle with this Israeli enemy, or threaten us that you 'll let it continue the battle.
Yes.