Ah, what a gratifying event !
Wendao will go to court !
What do you mean gratifying, Gosh !
There's been a lot going on lately, ah.
I frequently go to court.
Before you saw that I forgot to make a customs declaration and had to go to court.
Later on, I neglected to declare and had to go again.
Today I 'll go in a while, yes.
Today, um, it's to give--
Who did you offend.
I did n't offend anybody.
I was selected as a juror.
To serve on a jury, to serve on a jury.
Oh, you offended the accused.
No, no, no, today it's like this.
He first makes the selection, then the lawyers for the two sides take a look.
I still do n't know if I will be chosen.
He still does n't know if he will be selected or not.
It's like this ; the lawyers for the two sides have to look to see how the person is.
Then everybody makes the selection together, the person has to be acceptable to all.
So both people have to think that he will be beneficial to both sides.
Beneficial to one's own side.
Right, Right, that's right.
Only then can he become a juror.
So, that is--
normally they will do their best not to select people like us, ah, who work in media.
Ah.
Oh, they 're afraid you are biased or, or will have influence--
They 're afraid you are biased or that you will spread information, or that your opinions are too extreme, and so on and so on.
Oh,
There are times when it's not easy to fool them and things like that.
Right, Right, that's right.
Ay Today, Wendao, so when you mentioned court, I thought of this kind of controversy over the Qiu Xinghua court case.
The controversy, eh, actually caused me to feel deeply that we have to admit that our country, uh, is still a rather backward country.
Economically, we are already very, very strong, but in reality when you talk about whether a country is, er, advanced or not, you do n't just look at the economy.
That is also to say, ah, you would have a lot of hard time for the so-called western legal provisions, uh, to work here, ah.
You are assuming that western legal provisions are advanced.
Um.
And our, eh, law, socialism, ah.
I did n't make that assumption.
My that--
My meaning is that we are all moving in the direction of globalization.
That is not necessarily a question of being advanced or backward.
Your whole--
That is to say, there is no way to implement many of our, uh, provisions.
Whether or not they can be implemented is not necessarily a question of being advanced or backward.