Joining us from Gaza is Nemer Hammad, the Palestinian President's Political Affairs Advisor.
Sir, uh, to begin with, uh, to the observer of Palestinian affairs and Palestinian statements, things may appear somewhat ambiguous.
At times, the Palestinian President announces that these consultations have reached an impasse, and at other times he says that the situation has hope in, uh, reaching a solution for this government.
And Erekat today confirms that the current government may be one of the options proposed to President Abbas.
What is the truth of the matter ?
Well, the fact is that everyone knows that there have been times and moments where there was really great optimism of possibly reaching an agreement.
Then some problems appeared, which are not a secret either, and I can say them clearly.
So the brothers in Hamas put forth the issue that, uh, the essential portfolios must not be in the hands of independents, and that this would be an insult to the leaders of the factions.
In other words, this was a surprise.
Historically, as an example, the first Finance Minister in the Authority was brother Muhammad Zuhdi Al-Nashashibi, and he is an independent.
The first Palestinian Interior Minister to be appointed, uh, was Major General Abdel-Razzaq Al-Yahya, and he is an independent.
So this is one of the problems that surfaced.
Yet another problem surfaced and it was a surprise, and now it is being repeated in the statements of some of the brothers in the Hamas leadership, which is that the appointment letter by the president and the National Reconciliation document I mean are not sufficient in order, uh, for the government to obtain the vote of confidence.
Um.
The government receives encouragement from the Legislative Council, thus it becomes effective as if the appointment letter and the National Reconciliation document or the prisoners are worthless.
The problems exist.
Yes.
They exist under an economic and financial siege, and also a political siege.
Okay, speaking about this economic and financial siege, today Abbas said that we want a government capable of lifting the siege now with these efforts that have resulted so far in a kind of, uh, untangling, uh, of some of, uh, these difficulties that have befallen or or are facing the Palestinian people.
There is a Qatari initiative to pay the salaries of some employees in uh, Palestine.
Getting out of the predicament.