And our guest, Azam al-Ahmed, Chairman of the Fatah Movement Parliament Bloc.
Mr. Azam Al-Ahmed, at a time when the international community is actually demanding Hamas to recognize Israel and reject violence, we hear some of your colleagues actually criticizing Hamas, that its members have not fired one shot at the Israelis since the truce agreement.
How ah I mean, can we reconcile these two subjects ?
I mean, maybe some statements are released inaccurately but amid ah the skirmishes and harassment, some statements come out, I mean ah that the only aim behind them in my estimation is harassment, not more than that.
We say yes, Hamas was the regiment most committed to the truce that was announced in Cairo, and this is not at all a fault, but rather we rather respect this position.
Ok, Mr. Azam al-Ahmed, from another perspective, ah as you know Fatah formed all, if not most, of the Palestinian governments that, I mean, have existed since the Oslo Agreement ; Fatah also complied with international standards, as foreign officials say.
But what was the outcome of that ?
I mean, we signed an agreement as a Palestinian Liberation Organization and ah the governments committed by the successive, and by the way ah we were continuously, Fatah, inviting everyone to participate.
Those who accepted participation, like the Al-Shaab Party, Feda, Popular Resistance Front, some of the independents and the Islamic Current, were always members of the government.
The outcome : we signed a principle agreement for a three year period.
Israel ah was setting up barriers.
We succeeded first in establishing organizations, the nucleus of the Palestinian entity on the land of Palestine, on the way to establishing the independent Palestinian state.
Yes.
About a quarter million Palestinians returned thanks to the agreement that was signed.
And when Israel started to disclaim the agreements, we clashed with it and Sharon, who actually opposed and is still opposing and his party still opposes the Oslo Agreement, won in the Knesset elections.
Okay.
And we entered a struggle since the year 2000 till now, and before that the Al-Nafaq uprising also, let us remember it well ; this is why Yasser Arafat was put under siege and there was the Al-Aqsa Intifadah and there was a re-invasion, because the struggle was renewed, because we refused ah to accept the Israeli dictates.
Okay.
Okay.