Mr. Ronnie Alfa, well, despite all that went on in Lebanon today, there is still some hope pinned, in some way or another, on Speaker Nabih Berri to play a certain role towards resolution, towards returning to the discussion table, and so forth.
Can Speaker Nabih Berri today take some sort of step ?
I mean, uh, I mean, could an attractive offer come along, uh, that would urge Speaker Nabih Berri to, uh, call once again upon the discussion table ?
Uh, Abir, I mean, the 14 February Forces mainly tried to manipulate, uh, Shiite bilateralism, thinking there could be certain differences, well, or political diversity, or paradoxes, or possibly political differences between Speaker Berri on the one hand and the resistance and Mr. Nasrallah on the other.
But, of course these flattering and laudatory attempts failed.
Uh-huh.
Speaker Berri had pointed out at the dialog table and at the discussion table that although he may be adopting an initiative calling for unity, at the end of the day he is an involved party and will remain so.
Therefore, he will express his views as an involved party.
Speaker Berri, today, and until the last moments of the divorce kept saying that the marriage could still be patched up, the combination of national accord and dialog were still possible, but when all these windows were closed, the final cure was cauterization, as you mentioned at the beginning of the episode.
Of course, today there have been attempts to revive Speaker Berri's role in this direction, but let's admit that what's going on today in Martyr Square and Riyadh Al-Sulh Square dictates a new national political game to Speaker Berri, as well as all the Lebanese parties involved.
Today there can be no return to any discussion table or dialog table to discuss matters that have become part of the past.
The solution now lies in devising an appropriate formula to form a national unity government and calling for early elections.
I do n't know what form Speaker Berri's possible initiative might take ; however, under the weight of these two demands, it is impossible for Speaker Berri to make any new moves.