Joining us live from Jeddah is Doctor Zuhair Al-Harithy, the writer and researcher on political issues.
Doctor Zuhair, do you expect this summit to be any different from previous summits ?
Well, by God, we hope so, I mean, uh, when, uh, we feel that the attendance of all the leaders, uh, reflects, uh, the importance of this summit.
And, uh, I also relate what you said about the speech of the Custodian of the Two Holy Shrines today, which was, I mean, unconventional and revealed that there is actually a serious desire to come out with complementary resolutions that would benefit, uh, the Council states and their peoples.
Okay, Doctor, I mean, uh, you mentioned the Saudi king's speech.
There's no doubt that in the speech, he pinpointed a lot of painful areas in the Arab body politic.
How would you evaluate the issues to be addressed, and especially those related to the Lebanese and Iraqi issues ?
I mean, I think that the Council's stance on these two issues is also related to the stance of the Arab League, I mean, it wo n't be anything new.
And we 've heard resolutions and political stances from each individual state, uh, which uh, I mean, stress the unity of Iraq as a country and also support legitimacy in Lebanon.
I mean, these are the two main issues which, I mean, I think the summit will focus on.
But I would also like to add that the Custodian of the Two Holy Shrines referred today to an important point when he indicated that there is a flaw in the constitution of the Council.
He pointed out we support or contribute to solving these issues outside the Council states or those related to the region and we can not solve our problems within the Council.
He demanded that when there is a unified stance and a unified word, it can contribute to solving the pending problems in the region, which I mean, have reasons and implications that affect the Council states.
Okay, Doctor Zuhair, regarding Oman's refusal to join the Monetary Union in 2010, I mean, in your opinion, how much impact will that have ?
I mean, I think it's not Oman.
It's that we suffer from problems in each state.
Each country has temporary desires and interests.
If we follow this path, it would be difficult to activate the states of the Cooperation Council.
I think that if there are sincere intentions and a serious desire among leaders for the good of the people, not only with regard to economic issues or even the military issue, which is more dangerous, when we feel that there is, uh, uh, a strong Iranian presence in the region, and if this Cooperation Council does not transform into a regional power among its individuals and peoples in order to realize their interests, it will certainly fail in the long run.
Um.
Um.
Yes.
Um.
Yes.