Mr. Hassan Nasrallah talked about outside support for the government.
The government claims that there is no outside influence on its decisions, while the West says that the Lebanese government is a Western project.
How do you read this equation ?
Regardless of what the Lebanese government says, there are obvious positions from Israel and from the new conservatives in the United States of America.
Yes.
They use the state of internal contradiction in Lebanon regarding the issue of the authority and regarding the management of the authority in the country as an entrance and a means to justify the attack on the region and to justify the scheme of the neo-conservatives, who suffered several failures and kept falling, one after the other, inside America.
So you find that they are trying to re-fix and produce their project in the region, maybe it would reflect on the American inside, and to abort ah ah the report of the Baker-Hamilton commission, which appeared yesterday and which carries in its pages a project opposing a project of the neo-conservatives.
<1542.5365:1543.099> Ah--
Yes.
So, this plan is obvious that using the Lebanese front, and using the position of the Lebanese government, whether it wanted or not, in order to be serving the interests of the foreigner.
Yes, I mean, can we say that the insistence, of the governing team not to step down, the reason for it is not the strength of its position, but the outside support for it ?
It is obvious to you this issue has become obvious for everyone, especially after some Arab countries entered the battlefield in Lebanon in an obvious way, and they considered themselves the concerned party with that struggle and threat by sending troops to Lebanon to fight in defense of that situation.
We consider that heating up the head of the Lebanese government, especially that the will of the opposition is heading in the direction of creating a slogan under the headline of a Coalition Government.
Yes.
The intention is not to exclude anyone, neither to isolate anyone.
The intention is to form a state of national participation to protect the main principles and the national strategy in the country.