A representative in the Iraqi Parliament and a leader in the al-Sadr current, Mr. Salam.
First ah as we know that Al-Sadr current had announced the suspension of its participation in the government and the parliament in opposition to the meeting of Bush and Al Maliki, the Iraqi Prime Minister.
This is not the first time an Iraqi Prime Minister has met with President Bush, right ?
In the Name of Allah, the Most Beneficent, the Most Merciful.
Naturally, I mean, ah it is going through a crisis and dangerous escalation in acts of violence and terrorism.
believes that all these acts of violence or what is going on in Iraq and the deterioration of the situation, that the reason for that is the occupation forces.
So, when the Al-Sadr current opposed ah ah the meeting of Mr. Al-Maliki with Bush, considering the Americans are responsible, a direct responsibility, for what is happening in Iraq.
That is why there should be a strong position from the government, in which it demands ah receiving the security dossier and controlling the security situation in order to stop the bloodshed and to avoid continuing this blood-letting.
Once again, did this responsibility come up now, as you say the responsibility of the Americans for what is happening, or was it the reason in the past, for example, Al-Ja'fari's government Prime Minister Al-Ja'fari, to be in this government, he met with Bush, it did not cause any fuss ?
Certainly, certainly, but now things started to get more dangerous and to get more heated, and the security situations in Iraq started to deteriorate bit by bit, so actually we have reached a stage the street would not be able to handle what is going on.
So, we said that there should be an earnest and effective step from the government to receive the security dossier, because the situation of the dead and the situation of what is happening in Iraq has become a terrifying and very frightening situation.
Yes.
Ok.
Mr. Salam, personally, do you consider this step successful ?
Definitely, it is ah a political justification, or a political position that the Al-Sadr current adopted, I hope, I mean, that there would be a round of dialogue between ah the political powers and the government in order to coordinate the position before announcing it.
Ah we hope the government has a strong position and I mean, a strong will in stabilizing the security dossier, and through dialogue with the Americans ; so the position of the Al-Sadr current, is a political position.
Ok.
Ok, Bush did not only meet with the Prime Minister, but he also met with Abd al-Aziz al-Hakim, one of the senior Shiite leaders in Iraq, as you know.
Are you going to apply the same thing you did with the Prime Minister to Bush's meeting with Abd-al Aziz al-Hakim ?
No, naturally, the Supreme Council has its own policy, and I believe it is a party that has its political plan.
As for the government, it is responsible for the security of Iraq as a whole ; so when the Al-Sadr current announced its position, it was asking the government to have the power in controlling the security situation, and it has the bigger role in receiving the security dossier.
So, we also gave ah I mean ah power and support to the Prime Minister in order to demand to receive the file, as the street is now congested and does not want to continue in that situation.
You are belittling in this case the influence of Abd al-Aziz al-Hakim, I mean, you say he has no importance compared to the Prime Minister, right ?
No, certainly Abd al-Aziz al-Hakim is a political man, who has his political project, but we are demanding the Prime Minister, he has the bigger authority in the administration of Iraq as a whole, but Mr. Abd al-Aziz al-Hakim is a contributing party in the political process, and he has his political role.
Ok.
Abd al-Aziz al-Hakim, I mean, you want to say, has his political program ; his political program is different from your program ?
Definitely, we disagree with the brothers in the Supreme Council with our political project, we have a project of resistance, reform and change.
They have a project of the Americans.
They do not have a project of change and reform, you say ?
No, no, not change and reform, but they do not believe in resistance at the time being, and so they entered the political process from its beginning, before the fall of the regime.
And there were rounds of dialogue between them and the Americans, and you know where the mistake is, but we do not want to engage in dialogue with the Americans we did not believe in the political process from the beginning ; we hold the occupation accountable for what is happening.
Yes.