Ah undoubtedly ah a very hasty project, especially that the Hebrew State tried to implement this project alone, from the Mediterranean Sea to the Red Sea.
And it was proved to them with certainty that the project is ineffective economically, as it will cost one and a half billion dollars.
So they tried using their well-known means to transfer this project to another agency to implement it and finance it, while they reap the fruits from it.
Aha, aha.
They have many goals ah for such a project, the most important of which is to build one hundred new settlements they have been planning to establish in the Negev.
Ah.
But now the fear is that they plan to build them across the extension of the new canal line from the Red Sea to the Dead Sea under various headers, including the headers ah of development and architecture and ah establishing new settlements.
And since the subject has become open in Jordan for everyone, there is no guarantee that the new construction projects that would be established on this line might reach the hands of the Zionists.
Aha.
And they might repeat the story as they started it in Palestine by building settlements, and the eastern mountains will become occupied to the Dead Sea and Araba Valley, occupied by the Zionists.
Aha, aha.
This project is extremely dangerous, except--
would n't it also contribute to completely connect the Palestinian and Jordanian economy to the Israeli I mean, what generates from it, may be, of demographic, economic and development projects.
Yes, more than this, I say ah this project is one of the American-Israeli projects in the region which aim in the end at incorporating ah Israel in the Jordanian society and in the Arab society ah and marketing it in this way.
Huge tremendous joint projects ah ah that guarantee the security and stability of the region as it is said, but they will bring us very big losses.
Aha--
This project has engineering damages, environmental damages, military damages and political damages on Jordanian society.