And with us from Nablus, Palestinian Deputy Prime Minister Nasser el-Dein el-Sha'er.
Mr. Sha'er ah what justifies the refusal ah ah of your government to attend the speech by President Mahmoud Abbas tomorrow, and it is assumed to be a speech that interests all Palestinians, with all factions ?
No, we are not the concerned with %pw in the first place.
This is a speech the President gives to the Palestinian people, he wants to present his point of view on the subject.
We are not part of this subject ah and we are not part of this speech he will give.
It is a point of view the President sees and wants to give.
Since we are not partners in this speech, so would we just be an esteemed listener in such a meeting ?
Besides the very difficult, intense security state that we urge the President and all the parties in the Palestinian street to put an end to this chaos and this breakdown in security.
The problem is not in a speech here or there, but we are absolutely convinced that speeches and lots of speeches in the Palestinian street have come to complicate the situation, and we fear that these speeches ah could increase the tension in the situation.
This was a topic of conversation today between me and the President, and I told him that the problem is that such speeches ah will bring interpretations, responses, and reactions, then they might be interpreted in the street into bullets ; we do not need that.
We want a government, we want national unity, we want to heal the injuries, we want a good word, not a list of grievances now.
Before we talk about a list of grievances, we first want to calm down the Palestinian public, first of all.
Ok, Mr. Sha'er--listen with us to part of a statement by Mr. Sa'id Siam, Minister of the Interior, after an emergency meeting of the council ah of Ministries, then we go back to talk to you.
The government asserts that the internal security is the authority of the Ministry of the Interior, and this requires withdrawing the Presidential security forces from the streets and alleys, and the government will discuss this issue and decide on it with President Abu Mazen.