Now Mr. Gore.
He was campaigning in his home state of Tennessee today.
Tennessee is not giving its favorite son a free ride.
Here is ABC's Jim Wooten.
Not a bad place to be from, and not a bad place to come back to.
7777
And although he has n't been here in 2 12 months, the Vice President's here today--
It's great to be home in Tennessee.
Back where he's run and won 14 times in 24 years, but where this week he's dead even or maybe even trailing Governor Bush, who is n't in trouble at home, and who just happened to be in Tennessee this week, too, asking his favorite sarcastic question--`` where exactly is home for the Vice President ? ''
He may win Washington, D.C., but he is n't going to carry Tennessee !
That has considerable resonance here.
I think he's been in Washington too long.
I do n't think people consider him a Tennessean anymore.
Gerald Wiser voted for Bush yesterday.
This is one of a few states with early voting.
You have nine people running for President.
And so did the Wrights, Michael and Carolyn, Independents, but not undecided.
The biggest negative for Gore is his association with Mr. Clinton.
The baggage ?
It's not an example of a prophet without honor in his own land or even here in his own hometown.
It's just that Tennessee is a genuine two-party state and has been for a long, long time, and although Gore has never lost an election here, he's never had a landslide either, and this time, little by little, his once-comfortable ad has been whittled down.
His state campaign director insists, `` we expected that. ''
You 've got a Republican governor, two Republican senators, the majority of the membership of Congress are Republicans.
They 'd like nothing better than for them to embarrass him in his own home state.
So, Tennessee's most illustrious modern political family is having to work mighty hard at home now and spend at least $ 1 million on local TV ads something they did n't plan on.
Can you come out and work hard for him one more time ?
The importance of Tennessee to my family goes way beyond its 11 electoral votes.
Sure, it's a matter of pride, but in a race this narrow, 11 electoral votes ai n't hay.
Jim Wooten, ABC News, Nashville.