Good evening.
George W. Bush has chosen the person he wants to be Attorney General.
He is the 58-year-old, soon to be former Senator John Ashcroft of Missouri.
Senator Ashcroft lost his bid for re-election this year.
The senator is a former law professor and former Attorney General of Missouri and Governor, from the conservative wing of the Republican Party, and some of the positions he's taken as a politician have galvanized liberal opposition to his nomination today.
ABC's Mike Von Fremd is with us this evening from Austin, Texas.
Mike ?
Reporter :
Peter, Senator John Ashcroft is clearly the President-elect's most controversial nominee to date.
Many of his positions are bound to upset Democrats.
He said Ashcroft would serve everyone.
He will be faithful to the law, pursuing justice without favor.
Reporter :
The American Conservative Union gives him a top approval rating.
He has voted against some tobacco regulations, against expanding hate crime legislation and against allowing abortions at military hospitals.
A record that troubles most Democratic constituencies.
For a President-elect who is committed to uniting the country and not dividing it, this nomination is one of the most divisive he could have chosen.
We are tremendously concerned that this is a harbinger of things to come.
Reporter :
Mr. Ashcroft has also angered civil rights groups.
He blocked the nomination of Missouri Supreme Court Judge Ronnie White to the federal bench.
Judge White was the first black member of Missouri's Supreme.
Ashcroft said the judge was soft on criminals.
He had his reasons for blocking a single nomination, and I thought about that, and I looked at the facts, and I listened to him, and there's no question in my mind that this is a person who believes in civil rights for all citizens.
Reporter :
If he is confirmed, the outgoing senator said he would be an effective Attorney General.
I will enforce the laws of the United States of America with integrity.
Reporter :
Ashcroft said his recent loss in the U.S. Senate race has given him time to reflect.
Political defeat brings more than emotion and pain.
It brings perspective, and today, for Janet and me, it brings a renewed and noble call to public service.
Reporter :
Now this is the first nomination to have been even mildly controversial, but it does go a long way to satisfy the conservative wing of Mr. Bush's party.
And Peter, he 'll need them when he begins to govern.
Thank you very much, Mike Von Fremd in Texas tonight.