Once again there 'll be two presidential candidates missing from the debate.
Pat Buchanan hardly registers on the political radar this year.
And Ralph Nader, who may make the difference between a Gore or Bush win in several places.
ABC's Linda Douglas was with his campaign over the weekend.
Ralph Nader says his campaign is starting to take off.
Do you feel momentum from last night ?
Yeah.
Well, it was pretty big.
7777
At a Nader rally in Madison Square Garden, 15,000 people joined actors Tim Robbins, Susan Sarandon and other stars to hear his message--that average Americans are powerless.
They have lost control of their government.
They have lost control of their workplace.
Nader condemns corporations, drug companies, pesticide manufacturers, banks, landlords, the media.
His supporters say they do n't care that he has no chance to become President.
I want to see my vote as a statement that I will no longer compromise.
Nader says George Bush and Al Gore are essentially corrupt.
Here's the difference between Bush and Gore when it comes to corporate power.
It's velocity with which their knees hit the floor when corporations knock on their doors.
Applause
In a year when most candidates are afraid of appearing negative, Ralph Nader attacks his rivals with gusto.
George W. Bush is really a big corporation running for President disguised as a human being.
But Nader is most critical of Al Gore, often when speaking to Democrats.
He has betrayed, he has lied, he has deceived, he has dissembled.
Democrats fear Nader may make a difference in some key states, like Washington and Wisconsin, luring voters away from Gore and handing the election to Bush.
You know, some of the Democrats are going to blame you if Gore loses.
They ought to blame themselves.
Who do you think is going to win this year ?
I do n't know.
It's very close.
Do you care ?
No.
He says this year's campaign is really about the next election, about building a serious third party and qualifying for federal campaign money.
Thanks for running.
Thanks for voting.
Nader is never happier than when he is taking on the system.
Linda Douglass, ABC News, Piscataway, New Jersey.