The chief prosecutor at the International War Crimes Tribunal has demanded the new Yugoslav President hand Slobodan Milosevic over to face trial for war crimes, but the U.S., which has spent enormous amounts of time and energy fighting Milosevic, seems more willing to wait tonight.
Here's our national security correspondent, John M Wethy.
Tonight the U.S. is still offering to pay $ 5 million for information leading to the arrest and conviction of Slobodan Milosevic for war crimes.
I believe we can not ignore the actions of the war crimes tribunal.
I think we have to continue to support it, but there no longer seems to be any urgency about grabbing Milosevic.
The important thing first is to get him out of any position of any kind of power.
Senior administration officials are now saying privately that if Milosevic never comes to trial, the U.S. might not like it, but could live with it, as long as the man is gone.
The new President of Yugoslavia, Vojislav Kostunica, has made it clear he would not be likely to turn over Milosevic or anyone else to the war crimes tribunal.
He says the tribunal is not fair and is manipulated by the U.S.--the same criticism Milosevic had, but in most ways, Milosevic and Vojislav Kostunica have starkly different views.
On freedom of the press, rule of law and a free market economy, Milosevic opposed them all.
Kostunica supports them.
His great advantage above all else is the fact that he is not corrupt.
He's clean.
He seems as the most honorable man in Serbian politics.
Like most Serbs, Kostunica is bitterly critical of Nato's bombing campaign last year.
He also thinks the Clinton administration and especially Madeleine Albright pursued anti-Serbian policies.
At the same time, in many respects, he is very pro-American.
To help him, the U.S. is moving quickly to lift economic sanctions and is exploring ways to send aid.
The U.S. now has 10,000 troops in the Balkans, at a cost of $ 4 billion a year.
The next step will be to look for ways to cut those numbers.
John M Wethy, ABC News, the Pentagon.