Good evening, the United States is bringing most of its investigators home from Yemen.
Things have not gone quite as the U.S. had hoped.
Nearly 200 American agents went to Yemen right after the attack on the `` Cole. ''
A very high profile investigation in a very tense part of the world.
The Yemenis are worried about the threat to their national sovereignty.
We got our closest look at the damage to the `` Cole '' today, but even as we did, and even as the Secretary of State thanked the Yemenis for their early cooporation, investigators in the field think they have hit a brick wall.
ABC's John Miller reports tonight from the port city of Aden.
The FBI agents moved out in a caravan of trucks and buses, with all their gear in tow.
They are leaving frustrated.
The majority are going home, some will stay on the Tarawa, a Navy ship offshore.
Sources tell ABC News the agents are moving out because of security concerns, but mostly because the Yemeni government is not allowing the FBI to do what it came here to do.
While there has been a great deal of talk about the high level of cooperation between the Yemeni investigators and their American counterparts, in this investigation, there is a growing level of frustration on the part of U.S. officials, because even now, two weeks into the case, no U.S. agent has been given independent access to interview any of the witnesses or suspects.
The FBI was allowed to visit suspected safe houses and collect evidence and fingerprints, but only after Yemeni investigators had been through the houses first.
Yesterday, the American ambassador and a senior FBI official met with President Ally Saleh to complain that Yemeni investigators were not sharing leads or information.
Some U.S. officials believe the Yemeni are concerned about sharing information that could be embarrassing to a country that has been called a haven for terrorists, but U.S. officials say without access to the witnesses here, the future of any American prosecution for the murder of 17 sailors is in doubt.
John Miller, ABC News, Aden.