Finally this evening--the auctioneers.
Here in New York today, the gigantic international auction house Sotheby's pleaded guilty to price-fixing with Christie's--its only real competition in an industry that does $ 4 billion in business every year.
This is a case of the rich and the powerful stifling competition.
Here is ABC's Aaron Brown.
Sold for $ 200,000.
Diana Brooks was at home on center stage in the toney world of high-priced art.
As President of Sotheby's, she often conducted the biggest, the highest profile auctions, like the Kennedy family treasures, herself.
Sold for $ 95,000.
Today, she took center stage in a far grittier place, pleading guilty to bilking hundreds of wealthy art patrons out of tens of millions of dollars.
Those charged engaged in classic cartel behavior--price fixing, pure and simple.
The cartel consisted of Sotheby's and Christie's.
Arch rivals for nearly three centuries, the two auction houses agreed to fix prices on what they charged the buyers and sellers of high-priced art.
Even arch rivals, it seems, have a common bond.
Sotheby's and Christie's are all about money.
They are dealing with art, history and beautiful things, but at the end of the day, people go to Sotheby's and Christie's because they believe they can get best price for them.
They have already agreed to pay more than $ 500 million to settle the civil suits spawned by their crimes.
Ms. Brooks, who could go to prison and will certainly be heavily fined has agreed to turn state's evidence, turning against her boss.
She becomes Sammy `` the bull '' Gravano with better taste, and the art world, well, while being more careful, perhaps, it continues to do business with the same two companies who for years swindled them.
I think the impact has been negligible.
Much to a lot of people's surprise, business seems to be booming.
Consignments still seem to be as high as they were before the scandal broke.
Which may be the clearest proof yet that the rich are different from the rest of us.
$ 1.3 million.
Aaron Brown, ABC News, New York.