When the `` USS Cole '' was attacked last October and 17 sailors were killed, one of the sailors on board the `` USS Cole '' used his own camera to record some of the aftermath.
These are pictures you have not seen before, what the terrorists did to a $ 1 billion ship, not to mention the country's morale.
Here's ABC's John M Wethy.
Most of the sailors who died were about to have lunch.
A half-eaten meal still sits on the table.
A few feet away, destruction is total--the floor driven up through the ceiling, a deadly twisting of steel, daylight showing through a gaping hole in the side of the ship.
We was lucky to make it through all this.
Seaman Carl Wingate, who shot this home video, remembers the moment, along with his shipmates.
It was a really loud boom.
I mean, it's almost undescribable how loud it was.
I actually started running up the passageway, up the ladder.
I opened up the door, and there was no deck there.
It's gone.
I felt my whole body shaking.
I thought I was getting electrocuted.
I did n't know what was going on.
In the hours just after the blast, the crew is in a state of shock.
Some still covered with soot from the explosion wander through darkened passageways, still not sure what hit them.
God was with me today.
A senior enlisted man says he would have been killed if he had not been called to a meeting moments before the blast.
There was debris laying all over.
Outside, the ship's exterior walls are pitted by shrapnel from the explosion.
An orange life raft, blown from the deck, is plastered to the side of the bridge, like a moth on the front of a speeding car.
Crewmen, now at battle stations, stand at a 50-caliber machine gun that was unmanned when the attack occurred.
The Navy's final report on the `` Cole '' attack is expected to explain why no one will be punished, even though the captain and crew failed to take basic steps to protect the ship.
Sources say the Navy itself will accept part of the blame, by admitting all its ships were vulnerable and its sailors were not trained to expect this kind of attack.
John M Wethy, ABC News, the Pentagon.