Good evening.
That call to order you just heard reverberates through the Supreme Court every day that the justices convene, but today was no everyday session.
Never before has the United States Supreme Court taken up a case that could decide a presidential election.
It did today.
That session of the Supreme Court and two defeats for Al Gore in Florida courts dominate the news today.
We start with the U.S. Supreme Court, specifically at issue, an appeal from the campaign of George W. Bush that the Florida Supreme Court had exceeded its authority when it ruled Florida counties could have more time to hand-count ballots.
Throughout an hour and a half of argument, the justices were aggressive in peppering lawyers with questions, and they seemed interested on two issues.
Was there a federal issue involved that would even require the U.S. Supreme Court to rule ? and if so, did the Florida Supreme Court improperly rewrite Florida law, as Governor Bush contends ?
A sure sign of the historic nature of the day's proceeding, for the first time ever, the court immediately released an audiotape of the arguments.
But in the courtroom, listening in person was ABC's Jackie Judd.
Even now, hours after that hearing ended, there are still protesters circling the Supreme Court.
As boisterous as the protesters were, nothing intruded on the ritual inside.
The chief justice and the associate justices of the Supreme Court of the United States.
The courtroom was packed.
Al Gore's top campaign aides, his children, Republican senators and congressmen, they were all there.
God save the United States and this honorable court.
First up, Ted Olson lawyer for George W. Bush, laying out the campaign's main claim.
Olson made it through only 56 seconds of his arguments before a justice broke in.
Well, Mr. Olson--
Sandra Day O'Connor, often the swing vote on this court, demanded to know why the court even had a role in this case.
Olson argued that a century-old federal statute prevents laws governing an election from being created after the fact which, he claimed, is just what the Florida court did, and also, that the U.S. Constitution gives state legislatures, not the courts, the right to choose electors.
Of all the justices it was Ruth Bader Ginsburg who seemed most sympathetic to the Florida Supreme Court.
Midway through the hearing, Chief Justice Rehnquist seemed to scold his colleagues for being too talkative when he made an unusual offer to the lawyer representing Florida's Attorney General.
And so it went on.
Laurence Tribe, Gore's attorney, said the state court did nothing illegal.
It simply provided a way for a close election to be examined.
Justice O'Connor again, but this time suggesting the state court had overstepped its authority and perhaps there was a federal case here.
Justice Antonin Scalia also pressed Tribe.
He said the state court relied on the Florida Constitution to draft its decision, excluding state lawmakers and that violated the U.S. Constitution.
It was Justice Breyer who asked the most straightforward question of all.
What happens if the court rules in favor of Bush ?
The answer from the Secretary of State's lawyer was, Bush wins and all the litigation in Florida ends.
Not everyone agrees.
They say that no matter which way the court rules, it will not provide nearly so much finality to this presidential election.
Charlie ?
Jackie Judd at the Supreme Court.
Our thanks.