The remains of four sailors killed in the `` USS Cole '' bombing returned to Dover Air Force Base in Delaware today.
They were the last of the dead to be flown home, but in Yemen, the search for those responsible for the bombing continues.
Investigators turned up new evidence and more leads today.
ABC's John Miller reports.
Investigators have searched at least half a dozen homes around the port of Aden including this one, trying to retrace the movements of what they believe may be six or more suspects.
This house on Al Zaharah Street half a mile from the port is where investigators believe the bomb was built into the boat that carried it.
Just after the men moved in, neighbors say they erected a metal corrugated wall to block the neighbors ' view of the yard.
Investigators say the men who lived here worked on the boat behind these walls in the last few days of their stay almost constantly.
At first, neighbors were curious, but later they complained about the noise.
On the day of the bombing, neighbors saw the boat leaving through these gates pulled by a Nissan 4 x 4 truck.
The trip from the house to the harbor was only about a mile, then six miles by water to the spot where the American destroyer was refueling.
Today, FBI agents and divers were collecting evidence near the place they believe the boat was lowered into the water just before the attack on the `` USS Cole '' which killed 17 sailors and two suicide bombers.
Investigators have come up with a series of names of possible suspects found on papers in the houses and cars they searched.
In some cases, they have some names.
They have not been able to verify whether they 're accurate, true names.
In other cases, I do n't believe they have identities yet.
Yemeni sources say some of the bombers may have used ID cards issued by a government registration center 35 miles from Aden.
Today, at the walled-in headquarters of the government security agency, the manager of that center and several clerks who worked there were among dozens who have been detained and questioned.
Investigators are aware that a few weeks before the bombing, accused terrorist leader Osama Bin Laden released a videotape calling for holy war against Americans in the Gulf.
American investigators also say the way the bombers organized the plot in Aden has stark similarities to the way Bin Laden's cells have operated in the past, but, they concede, while they are closer to learning the names of the bombers, they are still a long way from knowing or proving who sent them.
John Miller, ABC News, Aden.