And now making hockey history--
the record for most victories by a goaltender in the National Hockey League has been held by Terry Sawchuck of the Detroit Red Wings since 1961, and now comes Patrick Roy of the Colorado Avalanche.
Here's ABC's Brian Rooney.
In 16 years with the National Hockey League, Patrick Roy has stopped the other team from scoring 21,000 times, frequently doing the impossible.
Do you believe that ?
Highway robbery.
And the amazing thing is, he almost never sees the puck.
No, I do n't see the puck most of the time, especially when it's really fast or at close range.
It's more anticipating it.
He follows the action with his eyes, and just knows where the puck will go.
He plays what is known as butterfly style, splitting his legs, often playing from his knees, filling the net with his 6 ' 1 '' body.
90 % of the time, when you 're coming down on Patrick, all you see is his big jersey and the equipment, and you just do n't see net, so there's room to shoot.
Roy has his quirks.
He talks to the goalposts and refuses to step on the red and blue lines.
He writes the names of his three children on his stick before every game, but he says the most important thing is not superstition, not even talent.
I think the passion.
If you love what you 're doing, and if you 're a passionate person, I mean, that will make the difference in the end.
When he breaks the record for most wins, Patrick Roy will replace Detroit's late Terry Sawchuk in the record books.
From George Vezina in the to Gump Worsely, who had a face stitched like a quilt, and Roy's hero, Rogie Vachon, pioneer of an aggressive style, the goalie has been the loner of the end of the rink.
They used to play without a mask, but now the game is faster and the puck flies at 100 miles an hour.
Years ago, the goaltenders were kind of the guys that could n't play defense, could n't play forward, maybe were n't good skaters, so they put them in net.
Today, I think they 're as good an athlete as any other player on the team.
And Patrick Roy has established a standard that the goalie has to be an athlete on a par with the best of any sport.
He has won the Stanley Cup three times.
I just wanted to survive, you know.
I just wanted to break that league and survive in it as long as I could, and being in that position today is something big for me.
He loves to play, which is just another thing that might make him the greatest goalie the game has ever had.
Brian Rooney, C News, Denver.