Tomorrow's summit meeting will bring Ehud Barak and Yasser Arafat to the resort city of Sharm El-eikh.
Getting both to attend was not an easy task.
The last thing President Clinton did today before heading to the Mideast is go to church--appropriate, perhaps, given the enormity of the task he and his national security team face in the days ahead.
We do have to try to reduce the violee and take a turn back for a period of calmness so that we can move back to a peace process, but even if the violence subsides, Israelis and Palestinians will still have to deal with an open wound--a scar so long and so deep from these last two weeks, it may be years before there is a real effort at talking peace again.
Both sides have almost stepped back six years in terms of their statements and attitudes, six years or more--before the Oslo accords, when the Israelis promised land and the Palestinians promised security.
Today there is only finger pointing.
Arafat deliberately launched it in order to attract the attention of the world by paying with the blood of his own people.
I urge Mr. Barak to lift the siege of Palestinians, to speak to the Palestinians as its neighbors because they are his neighbors.
The Palestinians clearly face the greatest pressure in this summit, since the Israelis are not the only ones blaming them for the outbreak of violence.
I think we all know that Arafat is in charge of the Palestinian Authority.
He has the responsibility for controlling the violence.
But it may not be so easy for Arafat.
Today, thousands of Palestinians are calling for continued fighting.
Half of the Palestinian population is under the age of 14 and many have been influenced by military factions like Hamas and Hezbollah--not by Arafat.
When you talk about Arafat and the people around him, you have to understand how young this population really is--how volatile, how close to exploding it really is.
Almost no one seems optimistic about the future of the Mideast.
That's the heartbreak of this region says one State Department official.
Whenever you take a step forward, you are bound to be pushed way back.
Martha Raddatz, ABC News, the State Department.