Today, U.S. Secretary of Defense William Cohen promised to catch and punish those responsible for the bombing of the `` Cole '' and defended the Navy's decision to refuel ships in Yemen as investigators continued their day at work.
Morton Dean reports it's a difficult day for the sailors remaining on board.
The stressful, monumental task for the crew on the U.S. carrier suffered a setback.
The ship began to take on water and lost electrical power again.
A difficult time became even more difficult.
It led to the cancellation of a memorial service planned for the 17 sailors who lost their lives.
Details are becoming known about the damage, most obvious, the huge hole, but also the deck is buckled.
Even the superstructure is damaged.
Hatches twisted out of shape and bulkheads destroyed.
Rear Admiral Mark Fitzgerald, who visited the Cole, was stunned by the damage.
I wo n't tell you whether the ship is going to sink or not sink, but there was considerable damage to the ship.
According to U.S. officials here tonight, the most important questions about the attack remain unanswered.
Any details or speculation on who specifically, we do n't know that at this point.
With well over 100 U.S. investigators now in Yemen, the search for evidence is now fully under way.
It's been officially designated `` Operation Determined Response, '' and that suggests several things that the U.S., of course, is determined to discover who carried out the bombing and that any group who helped plan the attack faces a response from the U.S. military.
The U.S. believes there are anti-American terror groups based in Yemen.
Half the population lives in settlements with 500 people or less, and senior U.S. officials here say the government, although friendly to the United States, does not have full control over the entire country.
Yemen's President has repeatedly said an internal explosion rocked the `` USS Cole, '' but tomorrow U.S. officials expect him to announce that he has changed his mind, and tomorrow, the search for bodies will resume.
Ten U.S. sailors are still missing.
Morton Dean, Yemen.
To learn more about Yemen, go to our website at abcnews.com.