Like many Heartland states, Iowa has had trouble keeping young people down on the farm or anywhere within state lines.
With population waning, the state is looking beyond its borders for newcomers.
As ABC's Jim Sciutto reports, one little town may provide a big lesson.
On homecoming night Postville feels like Hometown, USA, but a look around this town of 2,000 shows it's become a miniature Ellis Island.
This was an all-white, all-christian community that all the sudden was taken over--not taken over, that's a very bad choice of words, but invaded by, perhaps different groups.
It began when a Hasidic Jewish family bought one of the town's two meat-packing plants 13 years ago.
First they brought in other Hasidic Jews, then Mexicans, Palestinians, Ukrainians.
The plant and another next door changed the face of Postville.
I think Postville might be catching up with the rest of America.
If you look all over America, if you did a study of any great city, you would see the same thing.
The plants helped spur economic development in a town that had long been stagnant.
Stores are expanding.
New apartments and houses are being built, and there are hundreds of new jobs, making unemployment almost nonexistent.
What else would you like ?
Postville now has 22 different nationalities, but some residents have n't welcomed the newcomers.
They have no insurance on their cars.
They do n't stop at stop signs.
They do not put their children in a cash--they 've never heard of a car seat.
You know we 've been here a long time and I think most people would meet them halfway, but that does n't seem to be what they want.
For those who prefer the old Postville, Mayor John Hyman has a simple answer.
I just tell them, you 've got to change.
They 're here to stay.
They 're not gon na leave, and you 're going to have to adapt to these people.
Iowa's governor is now looking to follow Postville's example, relaxing immigration quotas.
It's a goal that seems possible when on homecoming night the starting kicker is 14-year-old Nikita Kargalskiy, who may be 5,000 miles from his hometown in Russia.
Jim Sciutto, ABC News, Postville Iowa.