In other news today, the annual Christmas migration is under way from every part of the country, and many other parts of the world.
People are trying to reach their people somewhere else.
New York's La Guardia Airport has been a nightmare this year, but there is some good news.
Even with the bad weather and the number of people flying, the industry says 2 million in the U.S. alone, things are not as bad as they might be.
Here's ABC's Bob Jamieson.
Reporter :
At Chicago's O'Hare Airport, ground zero for air travel troubles all year--there was a holiday surprise.
220,000 passengers jammed the airport, but with good weather and labor peace at United Airlines, there were few delays.
We 're actually on time today.
A rare thing that happens here.
Reporter :
There were scattered delays in Philadelphia, New York and Boston.
Snow fell all day long in the Northeast, causing poor visibility, but little stayed on the ground.
Across the country, skies were clear at almost every major airline hub and little change is expected tomorrow, which was particularly welcome at Atlanta's Hartsfield Airport.
Earlier this week, bad weather added to a labor dispute between Delta Airlines and its pilots caused scores of cancellations and hundreds of delays.
Still, Delta said it was forced to cancel 5 % of its flights today, because some pilots refused overtime.
This journey started at 6:45 a.m., and it does n't look like there's any promise of getting out of here tonight.
Reporter :
Analysts say travelers should still consider today an early Christmas present.
Anybody that thinks this will be the way that air travel is through the rest of the holidays and into the year 2001 are in for a real surprise.
This is not at all the way things usually are.
Reporter :
Which may explain why so many, almost 45 million people, are traveling by car this weekend, up sharply from last year.
And few problems are reported.
All aboard.
Reporter :
Amtrak is expected to have more passengers too.
I take the train because it's a lot more sane than flying.
Reporter :
The rail carrier is adding 16,000 seats in the Northeast alone, many for passengers who decided not to take a chance on the weather or the airlines.
Bob Jamieson, ABC News, New York.
We all know it pays to keep checking.
abcnews.com has up to the minute reporting on travel in the country.