In the Galapagos Islands of Ecuador, the oil spill that threatens so many species of rare birds and animals is now the size of Los Angeles.
Cleanup teams are desperately trying to save the hundreds of endangered species.
A tanker ran aground last week off San Cristobal Island, and our Ned Potter is there tonight.
This morning, the tanker was practically on its side, the waves breaking it off just 500 yards from San Cristobal Island, and despite their best efforts, officials said 200,000 gallons of engine fuel had already leaked from the hull, endangering sea lions, pelicans, crabs and other species.
The best thing that you can do is take care of the oil here at the source of pollution, where it's concentrated.
Ed Stanton heads a U.S. Coast Guard team, sent here at Ecuador's request.
From Mobile, Alabama, they 're trying, against the odds, to pump any remaining fuel from the ship so that it wo n't spill into the ocean, too.
You become sympathetic and empathetic with the people that are here.
They 've never experienced anything like this, and for them, it's an emotional turmoil.
Indeed, hundreds of people from around the Galapagos gathered in the harbor here to help in any way they could.
Fishermen in their boats, trying to clean up the waters.
Others trying to clean up shorelines, saving birds, all by hand.
How many animals have you cleaned off ?
This is the fourth one.
The `` Jessica '' was here to deliver fuel for tour boats, which bring many of the island's 45,000 visitors.
In other words, the environment here was damaged, in part, because so many people come to marvel at it.
The Galapagos are hallowed ground to many scientists, for it was here that Charles Darwin derived his theory of natural selection.
Now many of the fish he saw are in danger because pollutants could sink and kill the algae on which underwater life depends, but late today, the news was encouraging--that wind and currents were carrying most of the spill away from land.
I have a mixture of anxiety about the situation, and also relief, though.
We 've been lucky.
Lucky, but only up to a point.
This place has suffered its worst crisis in decades, and found itself almost helpless to protect itself.
Ned Potter, ABC News, on San Cristobal in the Galapagos Islands.