This week, Israel began opening its borders, just slightly, so that some Palestinians could go back to work.
Officials say the block over the past two months has been necessary for security, but for Palestinians in Gaza and the West Bank, it has been an economic nightmare.
Here's ABC's Gillian Findlay.
This is how bad it has gotten for Ahmad Al-dour.
Out of work, out of savings, he is now trying to sell one of the few valuables he has left.
The most important thing is to buy milk for the children, says this father of two.
I do n't care about the price.
I just need to sell it.
These days, Gaza's central market is filled with people who need to sell.
TV's, stereos, even bicycles.
Mohammed's parents told him they needed the money for food.
Israel says it closed its borders for security reasons, but the economic impact here has been devastating.
It's not just that tens of thousands of Palestinians who used to work in Israel are unemployed, construction in Gaza has all but stopped.
Israel has blocked cement supplies.
Gas is also in short supply, and from time to time, so is food.
According to the United Nations, in just three months, the number of Palestinians living below the poverty line has risen by 50 %.
One in three Palestinians now live on less than $ 2 a day.
Their economy, which had been growing, now loses close to $ 9 million a day.
I really do n't think we have much longer than the end of January before real disaster starts hitting from the economic point of view.
Five years ago Bashar Al-masri gave up a successful Washington investment career to return to Ramallah and help build the new Palestinian state.
Business was good, he says, until the Palestinians started their uprising.
Israel began shooting back.
The bullet came in here and hit the wall right here.
And all of Mr. Al-masri's investors fled.
Soon, he says, he will have no choice but to lay off his staff, making more people unemployed, more people desperate.
If the Israelis think that things are going to get better, they are going to get much, much worse because you are going to have many more people who are hopeless.
Hopeless, and angry.
Israel says it wants security.
Palestinians say, strangling them economically is only going to make things worse.
Gillian Findlay, ABC News, Ramallah.