Good evening.
It took the angry voices of hundreds of thousands of people protesting for days, but tonight Slobodan Milosevic finally admitted he is no longer the President of Yugoslavia, and he said he had just received that information.
It followed a day of intense behind-the-scenes negotiation to decide his future and the future of the country.
For now, it seems the new regime of President Kostunica is not insisting Milosevic leave the country.
ABC's Bob Woodruff is in Belgrade tonight.
In a surprise live speech tonight, Slobodan Milosevic conceded his loss and congratulated his opponent.
I, myself, am relieved by the enormous responsibility I have borne for a whole decade.
I plan to rest a bit and spend time with my family, after that, to help my party gain force and contribute to the future of the country.
On the streets on the second day of the revolution, the people of Yugoslavia are savoring their victory, swept up by the sudden death of their dictatorship.
Belgrade has become one big party.
While the people celebrated, Slobodan Milosevic reappeared in Belgrade in a videotaped meeting.
Russia's Foreign Minister had come to tell him that the Russians no longer are behind him and he should accept defeat.
Sources say Milosevic was defiant, promising to stay in Yugoslavia and in politics.
The people here say, their new President, Vojislav Kostunica, is quickly becoming a populist leader.
Today he, too, met with Russia's Foreign Minister, who carried the Russian President's endorsement, and tonight he went on national television to take direct questions from the viewers--something Milosevic never dared to do.
Disdain for Milosevic seems to be growing.
Yesterday's uprising was targeted mostly at him.
The crowds focused much of their anger on anything associated with Milosevic.
This is the local party headquarters of Milosevic's wife.
As you can see, every window is broken and the building is trashed.
The mob also singled out and destroyed the store owned by Milosevic's son.
They burned the TV station that carried Milosevic's words and beat the station's director, but tonight, the people seem to be turning away from anger, praying instead for a better future.
A future and a country without Slobodan Milosevic.
Bob Woodruff, Belgrade.