That standing ovation that Sammy Sosa got at Wrigley Field last night.
A Major League Baseball official is scheduled to conduct interviews in Chicago.
Those interviews could be a factor as the league decides how Sammy Sosa will be punished for using a cork-filled bat.
Our Gary Tuchman is live.
Good morning.
Reporter :
The Cub's player this afternoon, once again, Sammy Sosa will be in the lineup but he could find out as early as today what his punishment will be and how many games he 'll be suspended for.
Last night when he went to play for the first time, most of the fans on Wrigley Field gave him a standing ovation.
In all fairness, not all of them totally believed Sammy Sosa but he's a hero here and they want to believe Sammy Sosa.
He hit the ground ball on the first inning, that scored a run, but the run was taken away.
Sosa was kicked out of the game after he was found out he had a cork during the bat.
He meant not to use it during the game, but he did use it during the game.
Major League Baseball took 76 of his bats and x-rayed them for cork.
Those x-rays were negative.
That was conducted by a trained radiological technician.
We believe the x-ray process was sufficient to determine the state of those bats and we 're very confident that all of those bats were clean and had no foreign substances within them.
It was a mistake.
We 're all human and we all made a mistake.
Nobody's perfect in this world upon.
Reporter :
Last night with the bat, we assumed was not cork, Sammy Sosa struck out the first three times up.
He did hit a single in the ninth inning in a losing effort for the Chicago Cubs.
Back to you.
There's a concern with the huge series there this weekend with the Yankees coming to town that Sammy would be suspended during that.
The Yankees vpts been to Wrigley Field since the 1930s since they played the Cubs in the 1930s.
Sosa could get a suspension, but he could appeal suspension.
So if he wanted to play against the Yankees, he probably will be able to.
Gary Tuchman in Chicago.
Thanks so much.
Let's bring Jack back in with the question of the day and Bill's also joining us from D.C..
Hello, William.
Over your shoulder, Jack.
Keeping an eye on us.
Martha Stewart unfairly singled out for prosecution or is she getting what she deserved ?
Jim in New York.
I 've despised Martha Stewart for years before the ImClone scandal, but all this prosecution does is how biased prosecutors are when they deal with moguls who strip the hopes of investors.
CEOs, sleaze walk free, market should be free to stroll right along with them into the CEO hall of shame.
Joe in Michigan, prosecute.
When your skit in life is professing trust and integrity and you violate that responsilibity to your believing public, then you should be done.
Jude Nith Florida, says I never liked Martha, but now she's a part of good--