The search for a small plane that disappeared Sunday in Massachusetts has a bittersweet ending.
Three young boys, ages 2, 5 and 10 survived and are in critical condition after spending 18 hours in the cold.
The father, who was piloting the plane, also was rescued, but died late yesterday at the hospital.
The boys ' mother and two other brothers were killed.
Officials say the pilot reported ice on the plane and planned to land in Massachusetts when the plane left radar.
Aviators described the scene as they approached it from above.
the cabin was intact completely.
The wings were off of it, but it looked like a survivable crash.
Initially the wreckage was spotted, and there was no person spotted, but when we moved in closer and started to scan the area, then I saw the 2-year-old waving from next to the airplane.
The family had been heading to New Hampshire from Lakeland, Florida when their plane went down.
If you are one of the many unemployed, expect company.
Valerie Morris joins us live from New York with that story.
Valerie ?
Hi, Renay, Sharon.
The pace of job cuts is quickening.
The survey by Challenger Gray and Christmas says layoffs rose about 5 % in February.
That's the second straight monthly increase.
The ax fell heavily on government and non-profit workers as many state and local governments face severe budget crunches.
The U.S. economy has lost more than 2 million jobs in the past two years.
Airlines are getting flyers to destinations on time more often.
The top ten air carriers arrived on time more and cancelled fewer flights in January than the month before.
A government report says the improvements are the result of changes in air traffic controls, and a dropoff in passengers.
Despite operating under bankruptcy laws, United posted the best on-time performance.
United also cancelled the fewest flights.
Still United lost $ 382 million in January.
And one other note of improvement.
Airlines reported fewer complaints about lost, damaged or delayed luggage.
Turning to Wall Street, disappointing auto sales are denting the shares of the Big Three.
Of course there are ongoing fears about terrorism and a war with Iraq.
The Dow has slipped 116 points.
The NASDAQ is down three--