Thanks for joining us.
Here's our story this half hour--
There's dancing in the streets of Belgrade as angry demonstrations have turned into celebrations.
Tens of thousands of people crowded the streets of the Yugoslavian capital today after the apparent overthrow of President Slobodan Milosevic.
Yesterday, protesters stormed key government buildings and seized Serb state television in Belgrade.
Russia has joined the West in its support of opposition leader Vojislav Kostunica.
Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov congratulated Kostunica on his election victory.
He also gave him a letter from Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Putin says he hopes the opposition leader will do `` everything possible to overcome the internal political crisis '' in Yugoslavia.
Russia was the last European power to withhold support for the opposition.
The man who lost power in Yugoslavia finally surfaced today.
Slobodan Milosevic met with Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov.
Ivanov says Milosevic told him he plans to remain in Serbia and continue to run its largest political party.
Indeed Milosevic still considers himself to be President, according to his brother Borislav.
In an interview with CNN, Borislav Milosevic accused Western nations of supporting the demonstrations and said his brother has no plans to leave the city.
Regardless of how many votes Mr. Kostunica received, the actions that took place last night are vandalism.
It's violence.
It should n't have happened.
That's not democracy.
The opposition did n't accept the ruling of the constitutional court and began to storm the parliament, which was not being defended, and inflicted huge material damage, but it also did more damage to our institutions.
The next step in the transition to a new government is for the Yugoslav parliament to convene.
A commission set up to ensure the transfer of power is attempting to call lawmakers to Belgrade for a special session.
Alessio Vinci reports that may not happen until tomorrow because some members of parliament will have to travel to Belgrade from Montenegro.
What is going on right now is intense negotiations with all the members of parliament that were elected on September trying to get the majority needed in order to swear in Vojislav Kostunica as the next President of Yugoslavia.
With the events of the past week in Yugoslavia, the world is getting to know the name of Vojislav Kostunica.
Jonathan Mann takes a look at the man and his politics.
Unlike President Milosevic, he was not a Communist in the long years when party membership was the key to power.
He was not among the prominent opposition figures who have struggled against each other almost as hard as the regime.
He is an orthodox Serb nationalist, but he supports truer democracy for his country and better relations with its neighbors and the West.
Kostunica is a soft-spoken and uncharismatic figure who spent years building the Democratic Party of Serbia and gathering only modest support.
After ten years, people know what are the differences between Milosevic's policies and ours, what Milosevic was saying and promising and what the opposition parties and I myself was saying in these years and how I was behaving.
Kostunica is 56, an expert on constitutional law who lives with his wife and pets in a Belgrade apartment.
He was fired from his job teaching law in 1974 for his opposition to the policies of the Tito government.
He refused an offer to return in 1989 because of his opposition to the Milosevic regime, and he rejects much from the West as well--the Dayton peace accord, Western sanctions on Yugoslavia, and the war crimes tribunal.
In the months before the election, he was careful to distinguish between his support for European aid projects tied to reform and U.S. efforts, which he describes as unhelpful, even to the opposition.
I know what the support means when we get from European Union, the programs like energy for democracy, school for democracy.
Those small projects.
Here we get nothing in advance, just a political support which consists of nothing, and which is mostly used and abused and manipulated by the regime, saying they are just NATO parties, as is often said by regime, they are not having their own policy.
Jonathan Mann, CNN.
We 'll be following the events in Yugoslavia all day.
To learn more about the situation, just click on our website at headlinenews.com.