Back to something Kelly Wallace said.
She was talking about the somewhat blase attitude of Israelis.
We were looking at the front page of The Jerusalem Post the other day.
The big banner headline that day big and bold, was President Bush issues ultimatum.
On the side column, as an afterthought, citizens told to carry gas masks wherever they go.
It gives you a sense of, perhaps what 50 years of tension and war will do to your mentality, but it does also say that the Israelis are a bit more blase, if that's a fair word for it, than perhaps we are.
President Bush, when he talked earlier to reporters, mentioned that, this war is an effort to make the homeland, our homeland, more secure.
John King, that whole issue of Homeland Security must be so much on the minds of so many government officials, given the level of the terror alert today.
Reporter :
So far, so good is the assessment we 're getting from senior administration officials as they try to track what they worry about most.
As we have the strikes overseas throughout Iraq, there will be retaliatory terror strikes, either by organized terrorist networks or sympathetic terrorists or people against the United States in this country.
So far, so good.
No plans, we 're told, to raise the threat level, though it's already at orange, which is high.
So Microsoft of the President's business has been behind the scenes today.
He's the most senior of about a handful of senior administration officials, including the Vice President and the Secretary of State.
The National Security Advisor fanning out, we 're told in phone calls to more than three dozen world leaders offering them an update on what is going on.
But we did hear from the President a bit earlier today.
We see Baghdad, a capitol under siege.
Mr. Bush in the Cabinet Room at the White House to portray a different image, trying to show in Washington, it's business as usual, urgent business as, but still business as usual with Secretary of Defense Rumsfeld on one side, Secretary of State Powell on the other.
The President offered a brief statement in the Cabinet Room.
Call my cabinet together to review our strategies, to make the world more peaceful, to make our country more secure, to make the lives of our citizens as healthy and as prosperous as possible.
We heard from Secretary Rumsfeld who briefed us on the early stages of the war.
There is no question we 've set the finest of our citizens into harm's way.
They performed with great skill and great bravery.
We thank them.
We thank their loved ones.
We appreciate their sacrifice.
We heard from Secretary Powell who briefed us on the ever-growing coalition of the willing, nations who support our deep desire for peace and freedom.
Over 40 nations now support our efforts.
We 're grateful for their determination.
We appreciate their vision, and we welcome their support.
As well, we discussed the need to make sure we have plans in place to encourage economic vitality and growth.
We will continue to push for a Medicare system compassionate for your seniors.
We care deeply about the fact that some children in our society ca n't read.
We want the best of education for every citizen in America.
This cabinet is confident about the future of our country.
We 're confident we can achieve our objectives.
I'm grateful for their service to their country.
Thank you all.
Reporter :
So even at the very early stages of a defining moment of Bush presidency, the President trying to make the case his eyes and especially the eyes of his cabinet still on the domestic affairs of the United States as the early prosecution of the war continues.
One thing the President said that will be the point of contention around the world, the President called it an ever-growing coalition of 40 countries.
That is handful more nations that were actively involved in the coalition his father assembled 12 years ago for the Persian Gulf War, but there is a significant difference, of course.
In this coalition, it is the United States doing the overwhelming load of the fighting.
British forces on the ground, Australian troops scheduled to take part, perhaps in some way.
In the last Gulf War, you had Arab forces on the ground, the Egyptians, Syrians, Saudis, Qataris taking up arms to expel the Iraqi Armiy from Kuwait.
No such participation this time around.
ABC
the President says, This is a growing coalition, this is one of the big geopolitical debates going on around the world as the President--