For some Americans who find themselves spending hours on end watching television coverage of the war, it can be hard to break away.
That is especially true if you have a loved one in the war zone, but as our Candy Crowley reminds us, life does and must go on.
Reporter :
Spring-time and a game of catch on the Washington Mall.
A gentle breeze and a good meal beside the Pacific Ocean.
That other place, the one on TV all the time, might as well be on another planet, and that may be the point.
We happen to be at a very nice spot by the beach where this is a chance for people to get away from CNN coverage, everything, and kind of relax.
Reporter :
Time to redefine normal again, which on the homefront now seems to mean life as you live it only weirder.
I'm amazed at how unaffected I am by things, how I'm still coming to work and doing the same things and going for a walk in the morning, and it just seems so strange to me that it's almost a parallel universe.
More than 70 percent of Americans say they are sad about the war.
The barber at Hinsville Georgia larries that.
They seem more depressed.
A lot of them afraid they 're going to lose their jobs, you know, the economy is down and all kind of stuff.
Life on the homefront seems the same at Farmer's Market in Los Angeles, but it's more angst ridden.
I do n't think it's affecting our business as much as I was worried that it would, but you never know it's going to happen.
If there's any kind of terrorism that happens here, I think that would definitely put a damper on everything.
Nationwide, people shopped less in the first week of the war.
Sales fell 2 percent from the previous week.
Air travel has fallen 10 mers since the war began and some hotel chains say cancellations are up.
60 percent of the people say they 're watching the war.
My boyfriend has been watching the TV like every single day, every time it comes on, he's watching it.
Maybe fewer people are shopping because they 're watching TV.
Maybe fewer are flying because they worry about terrorism or they worry about what the war will do to the economy or maybe it's everything.
There's no one economic statistics to point to a downturn, it's an overall feeling, a psychological feeling that everything is frozen, everything is on hold.
Consumers are n't spending, people are n't buying stock, everything is--