Polls in Israel suggest Prime Minister Ehud Barak faces an uphill battle in next month's election.
Some members of his own party say they want Barak to step aside.
Mike Hanna reports.
Ehud Barak and Shimon Peres present a united front.
The hostility between two men who 'd been rivals in the past has, on the surface, dissipated, and it's made clear the former Prime Minister will campaign alongside the present Prime Minister in the elections for the next Prime Minister due to take place on February.
`` we are sitting together as a team, '' says Barak.
`` we will lead the election campaign and afterwards the country, our objective is not only the Prime Minister's race, '' says Peres, `` our objective is to work together for the good of the state of Israel. ''
But recent polls indicate Peres would fare better than Barak against the right-wing Likud Party candidate Ariel Sharon.
Two separate sets of polls have Barak more than 20 percentage points behind Sharon, whereas the same polls show if Peres stood instead of Barak, he and Sharon would be neck-and-neck.
Some within the Labor Party raise the possibility of forcing Barak to step aside and allow Peres to stand in the elections.
Legally, there can be a change of candidate up to four days before the polls open.
Ehud Barak has made clear he will not step aside voluntarily.
Speaking to a gathering of Jewish students, Barak made clear as well the issues on which there would be no compromise, knee gorx negotiation with the Palestinians.
Let me say it loud and clear--we will not agree to the right of return into Israel, applause and I do not intend to sign any document which passes sovereignty on the Temple Mount to the Palestinians.
Similar sentiments expressed by Barak's opponent in the next elections.
I will guard the unity of Jerusalem, the Temple Mount, '' says Ariel Sharon, `` I will guard the Jordan Valley and other security zones, and I will guard that there will not be an influx of refugees. ''
And while Barak and Sharon may be expressing similar points of view, some Israelis place far greater trust in the man who wants to be Prime Minister rather than the one who is.
The Prime Minister has said so many things lately that none of them stood the test of the day, not of the week, that we should be very careful about our assessment of his commitments.
While Ehud Barak continues to chair the weekly cabinet meetings, many observers say he has achieved little, and his time is running out.
At present, the polls show the majority of Israelis believe that Shimon Peres would be better at making peace, and Ariel Sharon would be better at waging war.
Mike Hanna, CNN, Jerusalem.