Well, joining us now, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, William Donaldson.
MR. chairman, it's good to have you here.
Nice to be here, Lou.
Let's start with that surprise, the malfeasance that is crossing your desk.
Are you suggesting corporate America has not learned its lesson yet ?
Well, no.
I think that quote is a little out of context there.
there are 15,000 companies in the United States, and I think the great bulk of them are very honestly managed and so forth.
a number of people have had egregious fraud and so forth.
There's been a general loosening of morals across the board.
What I was referring to in that quote you had was the number of cases we see day in and day out at the lowest levels, scams and so forth, where considerable amounts of money are being made and lost by relatively small investors.
Is the investor today in your judgment secure ?
Well, I think that the marketplace is becoming increasingly secure.
I think a number of the reforms that have come via the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and a number of things that we have done at the SEC are basically making everybody take a new look at how they 're performing their duty as a director, how they 're performing their duties on audit committees and compensation committees and in Wall Street.
I think the reforms that came as a part of the large settlement are going to change the way research and investment banking are done to the betterment of the individual investor.
And some people are surprised and I might even add pleased in this city that your SEC has been quick to react when Phil Purcell of Morgan Stanley made a statement that your SEC did n't think and that you did n't think expressed appropriate contrition when Bear Stearns stepped out of line in the view of the SEC.
It was n't a polite phone call quietly made, either from your enforcement division or from your office, it was rather public.
Is that the way you 're going to operate ?
Well, Lou, we 're deadly serious about bringing reform into the marketplace.
We 're deadly serious about some of the actions we 've taken, and when we see people who do n't appear to be taking it too seriously, we 're going to get to them right away.
And I think perhaps no one more surprised than some of the people running those firms on Wall Street.
You have also expressed concern about excessive executive compensation, particularly CEO compensation.
Is there really anything that can be done about this problem ?
I think so, Lou.
I think the real next step here is for compensation committees to spend a little more time than they do on what they 're really compensating for.
I think there's been too much emphasis on performance defined strictly by stock performance and earnings per share.
I think there are a number of other measures that indicate how well somebody's doing running a company, and I think corporation boards need to spend more time on that dimension.
And with you as Chairman of the SEC exercising your bully pulpit, one assumes that--