We begin we will finish.
Applause
d the extra $ 400 per child to American families this year, 2003.
All together these tax reductions will help 92 million Americans, and a significant part of the benefit to our economy will come within the first two years of the plan.
A family of four with an income of $ 40,000 would receive a 96 % reduction in federal income taxes.
Instead of paying $ 1,178 per year, the family would pay $ 45 a year.
Applause
That means extra money in the family budget year after year.
That money can cover a lot of bills.
That money can help families with purchases they have been delaying.
That money will be in circulation, which will be good for our economy.
Applause
And this plan will help our small business sector.
The benefits of the growth plan will come from increased consumer spending and, as importantly, from a lower income tax rates on the small businesses themselves.
It is important for our fellow citizens to understand that most small businesses pay their business taxes at the individual rates.
Most small businesses are sole proprietorships, limited partnerships, are subchapter SS, and, therefore, when you reduce individual tax rates, you benefit small business formation.
As a matter of fact, under this plan, some 23 million small business owners will see their taxes cut, which leaves more money for investment, more money for growth, more money for job creation.
A growing economy also needs small business investment, and our tax code should encourage investment.
Today a small business can deduct a maximum of $ 25,000 in the year in which they buy equipment.
We need to triple the amount that can be deducted in the year in which they buy equipment.
Applause
So I propose to Congress that limit ought to be increased to $ 75,000 and that limit ought to be indexed to inflation.
By doing so, we promote greater investment in machinery, and when a small business buys machine that enhances their company's productivity as well as it means machinery manufacturer is likely to have more work available.
More investment equals jobs, and what we are interested in in this administration is helping people who look for work find a job.
Applause
We can also promote economic growth and job creation by removing the double tax on dividends.
Applause
Taxing corporate income once is fair.
It is not fair for the federal government to tax the same money twice.
The burden of double taxation falls on the millions of individuals who receive dividends, falls especially hard on seniors who receive half of all dividend income.
Removal of double taxation would put more money in the hands of investors.
It would encourage more investment in American businesses.
Economists say that this plan will help our stock markets, and since half of American families own stock, the reform will help them save and help our economy grow.
Now, these measures were presented to Congress in the first week of this year.
The pro-growth package was urgent in January.
It's even more urgent today.
Applause
It is important for you all to understand and for our fellow Americans to understand the tax relief that I have proposed and will push for until enacted applause will create 1.4 million new jobs by the end of 2004.
In two years time, this nation has experienced war, a recession and a national emergency, which has caused our government to run a deficit.
The best way to reduce the deficit is with more growth in our economy, which means more revenues to our treasury, and less spending in Washington, D.C.
applause
I am pleased that both the House and Senate have passed budget resolutions that show real spending restraint, and now the Congress must focus on a robust and effective growth package.
We need at least $ 550 billion in that package because the more tax relief that goes to the American people, the more jobs we will create in this economy.
Applause
The last few months have been a time of challenge for America.
Our resolve has been tested, yet we have the great resources of national strength, and national character, to overcome every challenge we face.
Our confidence and our optimism have never waivered.
We are defending the peace of the world.
We 're bringing freedom to corners of the world who have n't seen freedom in years.
We 're all building the prosperity of our country.
This is a unique moment in our history and the American people are rising to meet it.
I want to thank each of you for your hard work.
I want to thank each of you for the faith you have shown in this country's future.
May God bless you, and may God continue to bless America.
Applause