Adrenaline is high on the flight deck of this carrier at war.
Soon after dawn on this fourth day, confirmation of the ship's first strike.
Fourth day of combat operations today bore fruit for the air wing and the ship team here.
We had F aircraft drop laser-guided bombs, Fs drop Joint Direct Attack Munitions or J-DAM weapons into eastern Afghanistan today.
This is the first of an unknown number of strikes we 'll conduct during our watch in `` Operation Enduring Freedom. ''
They 'll come back high-fiving and feeling pretty good about it but it is a bit of a somber event that they 're going through out here.
But the biggest thing you 're seeing is the intensity.
Reporter :
The fighter jets dropped their ordnance in a coordinated atack on a convoy near the Afghan city of Choft.
The Pentagon says the convoy was Taliban and al Qaeda troops.
There was an attack on a convoy of leadership that was identified through various intelligence means.
That was done within the last 24 hours.
Reporter :
But the strikes prove controversial.
Local Afghans in the convoy say it was a group of elders on their way to the inaugural ceremony for interim Afghan leader Hamid Karzai.
Analysts believe some tribal warlords may have taken advantage of American firepower by accusing rival leaders of being Taliban and misguiding U.S. intelligence.
The consequence of injuring or hurting someone who is friendly or nonparticipant in combat is very difficult to deal with, and we go to extreme details in--and do a lot of training as well to make sure that does n't happen.
We have dropped ordnance today, and I'm sure we 'll continue to drop ordnance, and do it with precision, do it with accuracy, and do it on call when needed first time every time.
Holy, holy, holy.
Reporter :
As the `` John C. Stennis '' ends its first week of operations in the Arabian Sea, Christmas is only a few days away.
Though a choir rehearses in the chapel for a Christmas event, for the crew, it is another workday, their first day off wo n't be for another three weeks.
It is another day for me.
When I'm out here, I do n't look at a calendar, I do n't think about it.
I stay busy at work.
Reporter :
But there are other chances for the SMIP to gather like this moment of pride to honor sailors who earned a promotion in rank.
It is called a frocking ceremony.
There is a sense of respect that you 'll agree as you walk around this crew is there.
As they take care of one another the whole community comes together.
they follow together as a team or they win together as a team, and I always encourage them to take care of themselves, because if they do n't take care of themselves, then it kind of all falls apart at the seams.
Reporter :
Last time we saw this sailor he was washing dishes in the galley.
Now he's been promoted, and pilots Sarah `` Clutch '' Joiner and Russ `` Gladys '' Knight say their final good-byes.
Goggles down, let's go.
Reporter :
Before boarding a cargo flight off the `` USS Stennis. ''
They 'll be home in time for Christmas.
I 've been here for four and a half years.
It is probably time to go, but I'm going to miss them.
They 're pretty much my family right now, or my family away from my family.
Reporter :
Savoring every last minute on the ship, Commander Knight rushes to the flight only seconds before the door closes.
Had is the best tour of my life.
19 years in the Navy, it has been the best tour of my life.
Reporter :
For the rest of the crew, there is five more months to go in this deployment, and no one knows how long America's new war on terrorism will keep the `` USS John C. Stennis '' engaged in battle, on highest alert as a carrier at war.
We continue with the pride and professionalism we have shown to date, we ca n't do anything but be successful.
Please make sure you take care of your ship.
Take care of yourselves.