There were more clashes between Palestinians and Israeli troops in the Gaza Strip today.
At least three people were wounded overnight during a round of gunfire at a Jewish enclave near Jerusalem.
Violence has claimed nearly 140 lives, mostly Palestinian, in less than a month.
Fionnuala Sweeney reports.
Another exchange of gunfire in Gilo, on the outskirts of Jerusalem.
44 Israeli military retaliates, using machine gun and tracer fire.
Unlike Sunday night's clashes, no warning was given to residents in Beit Jala to evacuate.
My children and I were in a room in our apartment on the second floor, he says, but when the gunfire started, we went downstairs to the first floor.
As you can see, the gunfire was attacking our home.
The residents of Gilo, too, were surveying the damage.
What can I do, he says ?
I bought this apartment seven years ago.
I thought it would be quiet.
I can not go onto terrace.
I can not put my lights on.
Gilo is situated on a hill overlooking Beit Jala in the valley below.
It was built on territory seized from the Arabs in the 1967 war.
Israelis consider it part of Jerusalem.
The Palestinians claim it was built on land belonging to Beit Jala.
Elsewhere, in the West Bank town of Hebron, one Palestinian man was killed during clashes with Israeli soldiers.
Israeli Defense Force officials say he was a member of the Tanzim militia, an arm of the Fatah party, a charge denied by the Palestinians.
Meanwhile in Jerusalem, Prime Minister Ehud Barak continues his efforts to form a government of national emergency.
Talks with the leader of the right-wing Likud Party, Ariel Sharon, ended without agreement Monday, but Israeli government sources say they are confident a deal can be struck before the Knesset reconvenes after the summer recess next Monday.
Palestinians say that if Ariel Sharon is included in any new government, it will spell the end of the peace process.
Meanwhile the Israeli military says it is hunkering down for military clashes.
In the words of one brigadier general, `` we are not talking about a short-lived adventure. ''
The Palestinians, too, say they expect a drawn-out conflict, playing Barak for calling an end to the fighting.
Fionnuala Sweeney, CNN, Jerusalem.