An occasion that marked the formal establishment between our two countries.
Since then this relationship has grown in importance to us both through good times and bad.
Both of my generation and Britain have special pause to remember the unacceptable sacrifice the Russian people made to defeat fascism in the Second World War.
Nothing, not even the fact that our countries became estranged in the war's aftermath, has ever dimmed our memory of the scale of your loss.
That experience should continue to inspire us, as we seek to build a more peaceful and secure world.
When I visited your country in 1994, I recall saying to President Yeltsin that he and I spent most of our lives believing such a visit would never happen, and that I hoped he was as delighted as I was to be proved wrong.
I'm just as delighted now, nine years later, to be able to welcome you here and to learn about the great changes which have occurred in your country since I was there.
Russia has established itself as our partner and our friend.
We work together bilatarily and on the international stage, and we are developing new links all the time in fields of commerce, culture, counterterrorism, energy, education environment.
I know you will be seeing evidence of some of this during your visit.
Mr. President, it is, I believe, a sign of genuine friendship that we are able to have disagreements, but remain firm partners.
It is no secret that the significant differences between our two countries earlier this year on how best to handle Iraq, but we are now able to look forward together firmly in agreement on the route we have decided in the United Nations, although, the tragic loss of British lives today reminds us all of the difficulties to be faced.
But as we look ahead, we know that our long-term partnership is of profound importance to both of us.
This is clearly evident, if we look beyond the challenges of international politics.
In the last few months alone, we have heard the announcements of major investments in Russia by British companies.
We have also heard a different sign of Sir Paul McCartney playing to enthusiastic crowds in Red Square, and we, in turn, have been enthralled by the celebrations of your own city in Petersburg.
At the same time, work continues to bring the young people of our countries closer together through language, teaching, school exchanges and university programs.
We have a vibrant and exciting relationship from which we both derive mass benefit.
Mr. President, your country is rich--