So what do the Clintons, Ford and Arnold Schwarzenegger and the cast of `` Friends '' have in common ?
They all love California.
That is certainly true.
and now Aaron Tonkin and according to `` Vanity Fair, '' he's at the heart of half a dozen investigations with fraud and angry investor lawsuits a-plenty.
Joining us is Brian Burrow to explain it for us.
Who is this guy ?
Garn Tonkin ?
Brian, can you hear me ?
I think heard someone say something.
Can you hear me ?
You 're on the air.
One of the great moments of live television, is n't it ?
Brian, can you hear me ?
All right.
We 'll take a--
I can hear you now, Anderson.
Well, maybe not.
Can you hear me ?
Just barely.
We 'll take a short break.
We 'll be right back.
Become a member of at westin.com. jooirx.
Joining us, Brian Burrow.
Who is Aaron Tonkin.
He is one of the biggest if not the biggest names in the world of Hollywood fund-raisers.
A person who would put together celebrities with charities to raise a lot of money.
He was perhaps best known as kind of the focal point between Bill and Hillary Clinton in the Hollywood community.
What's interesting, I mean, reading the article, basically a lot of the celebrities paid by him to attend charity functions.
Yeah.
That's one of the things that was most surprising to me was in learning that in one major fund-raiser, for instance, honoring former President Clinton, former President Ford paid by Mr. Tonkin and Sylvester Stalone was paid.
I thought it was for charity.
Yeah.
I guess apparently not and a lot of the celebrities making money from this.
Are they reporting it to the IRS.
I guess at least one IRS investigation about this.
Right now, Aaron Tonkin factors in no fewer than seven different federal and state investigations.
One of them being an IRS investigation into several million dollars worth of cash and gift that is he gave to many many Hollywood celebrities.
Now, his attorney gave us a statement I 'll put it on the screen.
It says--
Is that possible ?
In fact, alledged one of the principle reasons he took so much fun from--