We now return to `` People in the News. ''
Reporter :
For Martha Stewart seems business is everything, and everywhere.
Stewart has found the road to fortune wherever she has traveled.
I think the temptation for any successful entrepreneur to go global.
Reporter :
Her marketing vision also included KMart a company that recently emerged from bankruptcy.
Okay, girls.
Reporter :
Stewart is associated with Kmart since 1987 and been very successful.
The goal had been to bring affordable style to the masse.
There's a reason she was successful, and the stuff that she's created people like.
It's good, it's useful, it's appealing, it's attractive and it's cheap.
Reporter :
Even as Kmart struggled through financial difficulties, Stewart stuck by the company.
It's hard to run out on a partner that's down.
That's not our style.
Reporter :
Now Stewart is hoping people do n't run out on her.
The celebrity indicted on charges stemming from the sale of ImClone stock.
Stewart and former ImClone CEO Sam Waksal shared a broker who now also faces charges of obstruction of justice and perjury.
Her defense has been that she had a standing sell order at $ 60 and when the stock fell below 60 the broker was supposed to, you know make the trade.
She's been standing with that story.
The broker standing by that story.
The only reason it's not holding is because there are other people that the Merrill Lynch that investigated and did n't find proof that was actually the case.
Reporter :
After Stewart was charged by federal authorities Wednesday, her lawyers issued a statement in which they said, quote, Martha Stewart has done nothing wrong.
The accusation that Martha Stewart sold the ImClone shares based on inside information proved to be false.
If she lied, then that is the obstruction of justice charge.
That's the criminal side.
That's where the prison time comes in.
Reporter :
For Stewart, the fallout from the past year taken a tremendous toll.
Martha Stewart told me that the investigation itself had cost her about $ 400 million, in decline in her stock, legal fees, and lost business opportunities.
Reporter :
Ironic, considering the sale of the ImClone stock resulted in a gain of less than $ 50,000.
She 'll never fully recover.
You know, it's almost like e.g. you get off the hook, but are you really off the hook because people always believe you were guilty.
And it's hard to win back that sort of brand equity that she's lost.
Reporter :
Stewart is vowing to clear her name of the charges.
She is so focused and so determined that this investigation, while terribly upsetting, has not been something that's stood in her way.
As only she would, she said, Look, I do n't lose any sleep.
I still sleep my three or four hours a night.
Reporter :
He says Stewart is still taken aback by the reaction to her legal troubles.
I think she's been stunned at how much joy so many people have taken at her misfortune.
She does n't quite understand that the perfectionism that made her so famous also makes people say, Oh, is n't it fun to see someone like that have a big, big problem ?
Reporter :
A perfectionism reflected in even the smallest details of Stewart's life.
Martha does n't like to talk about how unpleasant things have been, but you can get signals of it in surprising ways.
When we sat down to lunch, she had put out these beautiful chop sticks which I commented on.
She said, in China, the person with the thinnest chop sticks has the highest social status, and of course, I had to get the thinnest chop sticks.
Then she paused and said, That's why people hate me.
Reporter :
Love her or hate her, Martha Stewart has tied every aspect of her image to her business.
Even her daily calendar turned into a marketing tool.
She said to me once that my life is `` The Truman Show '' and meant I'm always on.
From the time I get up until I go to bed, the whole world is watching.
Hello, everyone.
Did you--