Our founder here at CNN, Ted Turner, has sold more than half his stake in AOL Time Warner.
That's a lot of shares and a lot of money.
Andy Serwer's looking into that and the markets.
If you 're investing, why now ?
Chitchat in the Time Life Building here at AOL and all over Wall Street, Ted Turner selling 60 million shares for $ 800 million, more than half of his stake in the company.
He opens 40 million plus now.
Question is, Why ? Why is he selling ?
I think, he's at least--hedging his bets by keeping 40 million shares but basically he's decided that the company is not going where he wants it to go and he's bailing out.
You know, a lot of concern obviously by people who still own the stock.
My point about this, if Ted Turner were so smart and he's a very smart guy but he did not sell at the top, okay ?
He did n't sell at $ 60.
Hind sight would have liked to have gotten that.
He believed in the merger like most other people did.
We 'll look back five years from now, you can see, he has lost a lot of money.
You know, He still had $ 1.7 billion, we 're not shedding tears.
He did have $ 8 billion.
He's left a lot on the table.
We 'll look back five years from now, when the stock is either at $ 13 still or $ 8 or $ 30 and say, he was either very smart or not smart at all.
He's still hedging his bet by keeping 40 million stake.
I hope he's wrong.
Me, too.
The question, I'm an AOL shareholder sitting at home, hearing this news, Does this set off a few alarms ? Will people panic and everybody sell it ?
I think the stock will be weaker today.
Again, you know, the stock has drifted below $ 10.
It's been in the neighborhood for a while.
I do n't see the thing going down a lot.
Interesting point here also, people are suggesting he may be raising this money to buy those Atlanta sports teams that apparently are on the block.
The Braves and Thrashers.
You really think ?
You know, I'm not sure.
apparently they 're for sale.
We 'll have to see about that.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Let's check with Jack now.
The question of the day, Bill Bennet ?
I figure if Turner's smarter than I am, I'm selling my 80 shares.
80 of them.
$ 13 and change, out.
Talking about Bill Bennet this morning one of the country's leading crusaders for morality author of `` Virtues '' and admits he has a gambling problem.
Me.
he made the admission after Bennett lost up to $ 8 million in casinos in the last decade.
The articles say he won at times that he had $ 200,000 lines of credit at several laying casinos.
Gambling, however, is not one of the vices Bennett thinks is undermining American culture.
We want to hear from viewers this morning.
He does say he's going to stop.
News of Bill Bennet's gambling changed your opinion of him ?
Many, many responses.
Hypocrite would be a word present in many e-mails.
Hypocrite.
Barbara, Bill Bennet's glam gambling loss changed my opinion.
Linda writes he can do what he wants with his money.
I thought he was smarter than that.
Lawrence in Missouri, after sitting in front of my TV night after night, listening to him, watching every perversion, sin and evil known to man or beast, being glamourized by sitcoms and TV talking heads, imagine my shock in hearing that Bill Bennet being soundly condemned for gambling.
Is this the beginning of a new morality ?
Chad New York big deal.
What have you done wrong this morning ?
I ai n't telling, Chad.
David says my opinion did not change because of the new news. I always thought Bennett was a louse.
Am@cnn.com is the address.
Unburden yourself.
We 'll talk more about it with Jeff Greenfield coming up.