Make this final port call for some of these men and women on board who have been there for ten months at sea.
Chad Myers joining me on the set.
Typical perfect day in San Diego waiting for these men and women to come home.
Raining in L.a., raining in San Francisco but nice in San Diego.
It's a picture perfect place to live.
72 and sunny just about every day.
Have you ever been down there ?
No, I have not.
It is quite stunning.
It is beautiful out there.
I just think about all the family members sitting at home, sitting on the dock looking at this boat coming in.
It's just amazing.
They were not on vacation.
They were in danger.
Your loved ones are in danger for ten months.
Is he okay today ?
Is she okay today ?
Incredible sight to see these young men and women.
They are children.
They are 18, 19, 20 years old.
Think about when I was 18, I was thinking about going to college.
These guys are running ships.
Some of these, as you say, are children.
Some of these had children while they were out at sea and this is first opportunity to get home and meet and hold them.
We 've seen the reunions for the past week or so.
It brings a lot of emotion.
It's going to be hard for me to hold back tears.
We 're watching from the sidelines.
You can just imagine what these people must be thinking and how antsy they must be.
Got to think the last five minutes must feel like five days as they 've spent ten months on the water.
Just about to come home.
Sense the anticipation there beginning to build on those docks.
Friend of mine in Richmond, Virginia, on the radio up there WRBA.
His son was on one of the ships that escorted a carrier, although this came home by itself from Hawaii.
There are so many other ships out there that escort this ship as it goes out.
It's just not one ship, not just 5,000 people.
It is a battle group that goes out.
Eight, nine, ten ships and a submarine.
While some of these ladies and gentlemen are going to be joining their families half of them are going to stay on board because the `` Lincoln '' is going to be docked in Everett, Washington.
That's where the home base is.
It's going to have to make a trip up the coast.
They wo n't get to see their loved ones until Tuesday or Wednesday.
I wonder who gets to get off first.
Is there a drawing ?
Was there a raffle ?
We 've got to deal with the person who's going to be getting off here.
As you 've been watching throughout the morning, you 've been seeing that balloon, just getting back from spending a tour in Kuwait during the war.
Betsy is going to be leaving us.
She is jumping ship.
She is going on her own.
She was one of the water skiers.
We have to let her go.
She is going to be leaving us.
we do wish you the best, Betsy.
You know that.
It's been a blast having you, been a pain in the butt sometimes, been big part of our group the entire time.
Love you, Betsy.
Thank you, Leon.
We 're going to say good-bye to Betsy.
Some of these ladies and gentlemen are going to be saying hello to their families, standing on the side of the ship, ca n't wait to get off there.
We 'll have that for you live.
These reunions.
That should be happening any moment now.
Stay with us.