Hello from Atlanta.
Our top story this half hour--the United Nations Secretary-General says it's a time of `` delicate and acute diplomacy '' in the Middle East.
Kofi Annan is in the region for a marathon of talks with Israeli and Palestinian officials in a bid to end violence that has left dozens of people dead in the last 13 days.
He met with Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak today.
Overnight, Barak gave Palestinian Authority Chairman Yasser Arafat more time to curb the violence by extending the deadline for the fighting to stop.
Annan also met with Arafat in Gaza and offered proposals for ending the crisis.
Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov joined those discussions.
Barak says he's ready to accept a commission to look into the causes of the recent clashes, an outside commission.
The U.N. Secretary-General urged both sides to stop the violence and continue on the path to permanent peace in the Middle East.
I think we need a relative calm to work out these things.
I think we should avoid any statements or anything, on both sides, that will lead to tension on either side.
I think we are in a merd of delicate and acute diplomacy.
Diplomacy by coercion does n't work, and both sides should not make statements that are likely to inflame.
Clashes in the West Bank and Gaza have left scores injured and almost 90 people have been killed.
Mike Hanna joins us with the latest from Ramallah.
Once again, here in Ramallah, confrontation, Palestinian demonstrators coming up against the Israeli security forces.
Throughout the afternoon, the security forces have been firing rubber-coated steel bullets, they 've been using concussion grenades and they 've been firing tear gas into the Palestinian crowd, which has been responding with stones and on occasion, fire bombs.
What happened on this particular day, a funeral was held for a man who was allegedly beaten to death by Jewish settlers.
The Palestinians attended this funeral here in Ramallah and came down to this particular point where there was another confrontation with security forces, one that has occurred numerous times over the past 13 days.
Out of this particular conflict here, one hospital in Ramallah tells us they have, admitted seven people, who were taking part in that demonstration.
Of those seven, four people had been wounded with sharp-point high velocity ammunition, that is regular bullets, not rubber-coated steel bullets, that is more than 50 % of those admitted have been injured according to the Ramallah hospital authorities with regular bullets.
Earlier on, I spoke to the authorities, was provided with statistics that indicate over the past 13 days, nearly 40 % of those admitted had been treated for injuries skin with the high velocity regular bullets, a disturbing fact indeed.
One must point out as well, there has been relative quiet, relative to the high intensity of violence that has been seen, but here at Ramallah, the far northern border of the Palestinian Authority, once again there's confrontation tags and conflict.
Here, at least, no sign of any cessation of hostilities.
I'm Mike Hanna, CNN, Ramallah.