See that graphic ?
More than a million babies awaiting adoption in China today.
A California family is now bigger by one.
Tonight they 're welcoming little Abby Kramer in the world.
Was anything but simple.
Her new mom and dad had to contend with international red tape, traveling thousands of miles to meet the new addition and cope with the SARS crisis going on in China.
Their story is remarkable.
Thelma Gutierrez telling the story of the Kramers meeting Kramer.
Reporter :
The Kramers are taking a trip, the trip of a lifetime.
I have passports and everything ready to pack.
Reporter :
Mark and Denise are going to China to pick up a baby girl.
Her new parents will call her Abby.
To me looks like my child is my child, so I ca n't wait to have her.
Reporter :
After waiting nearly a year, things get a little complicated for the Kramers.
SARS wreaks havoc in China and foreign adoptions are put on hold.
The Kramers are among the lucky ones.
Their vias are approved.
Do you have masks ?
Yes, actually, we did bring some masks.
Reporter :
Still they have concerns.
They 're heading to Quinn Joe.
We understand that's where the SARS epidemic started from and we 're going right to the heart.
Reporter :
Nothing will stop them.
What would you tell her about somehow she came to you and why she was given up ?
The people that gave birth to you are not necessarily your mom and dad.
They 're the ones that love you and care for you.
We are.
Reporter :
Finally, It's time to go, with the 16-hour flight to look forward to--
it's been a total rollercoaster.
Reporter :
The Kramers are finally on their way.
With our video camera, they record their journey.
We just boarded the plane.
The flight attendants are wearing masks.
Reporter :
The Kramers decide not to, neither do the other 23 adoptive families on the long overseas trip.
We just got off, so our 16-hour flight is over.
Reporter :
The families begin with a tour.
An alligator, my goodness.
Reporter :
The Kramers must wait and travel to another town for Abby.
On the next flight, passengers wear masks and their temperatures are taken for signs of SARS.
Today is the big day.
We 're an hour and a half from getting our Abigail.
Reporter :
Finally the Kramers meet Abby.
Hi, there.
I kind of leaned over and gave her a kiss on the forehead and she looked up and--
Reporter :
They know little about their little girl, found by the side of the road days after she was born.
She spent most of her life in an orphannage.
Now Abby has a new life in California with the Kramers and their two kids.
I think I love her more every day, every time I look at her.
Reporter :
Thelma Gutierrez, CNN, Los Angeles.
Well, it is our turn to meet the Kramers back in the U.S. after their journey to China to bring home the newest and cutest perhaps, member of their family, in Los Angeles, the proud parents of 11 month Abigail Kramer.
Thank you for being with us.
Thank you for having us.
She is unbelievably adorable.
Thanks.
Tell us a little about this journey, that moment when you first saw her.
You traveled.
This is going on two years.
You battled bureaucracy, traveling thousands of miles, facing disease.
What was that like ?
Incredible, you know, just to hold her in our arms, have her with us.
I mean, you count the moments, and it was just anticipation all the way there.
So it was relief.
It was, you know, a dream come true.
she's really a delight.
I mean, though it was a little pandemonium at the moment, she's wonderful.
We love her.
And, Mark, the first time you were holding her, it looked like she was crying a lot.
She seemed startled to see someone that looked so different.
Yes, this was probably her first experience ever seeing a fair-skinned, bearded goatee, monster-looking guy and she just freaked out the first time she saw me.
It took about a day and a half for her to warm up.
I had to hide in the hotel room.
She would find me in the room and start crying every time she saw me.
You had to hide in the hotel room ?
Yeah, she 'd find me across the room and break into tears.
It was kind of that way with anyone that was blond, that was fair-skinned.
Yeah.
When you first heard about Sars, I mean, did you suddenly think, this may not happen ? this could stop the whole thing.
Sure.
We got calls that morning saying `` Did you hear that they 're halting all travel ? '' and we put in a call to the agency, we were going, and we put a lot of trust in our agency, and they were great.
You know, unless we were absolutely stopped, we were going.
Right.
After two years of working towards it, we were almost more afraid not to go than to go at the very end.
You know, Mark, I hope this is n't too personal a question.
If it is, just simply tell me to shut up.
But in the story I saw Abby was abandoned on the side of the road, which it's unthinkable.
You ca n't even imagine a parent doing that.
What do you think you 're going to tell her when she grows up about how she came to live with you ?
Well, I get emotional every time someone asks that, but we 're going to give her the best love and affection we can and give her a strong self esteem and we 're going to teach her--