When we come back, President Bush has not claimed victory in Iraq last night, but what about the tournament war on terror ?
Jack has that when we come back here on `` American Morning. ''
Real people, real results, in six weeks.
I'm a whole new person.
In just six weeks, I lost 20 pounds, which is just fantastic.
I think I lost 5 inches around my tummy.
In six weeks, I lost 19 12 pounds.
Call now to get a free video that tells you all about the home gym that guarantees real results for real people just like you.
Bowflex.
Working out with Bowflex was fun.
I was able to transition from one exercise to another very seamlessly.
All it takes is one simple workout.
I like the leg curls.
You could just really feel you 're working the backs of your legs.
Everything has surprised me, the way I look, the way I feel.
I feel like I could take on the world, you know, gr-r-r.
Call to get your free video and brochure and check out the entire Bowflex lineup.
That's--
If there was any question about how the Dixie Chicks would be received in America, answered last night, in part.
The band played to about 15,000 in Greenville, South Carolina, their first U.S. concert since their singer Natalie Maines sparked a controversy when she said she was ashamed the President was from the state of Texas.
We are back on stage looking online good.
Did you talk about the Dixie Chicks ?
Nope.
he landed on the aircraft carrier at a speed of about 150 miles an hour and touched down and came to a stop about the space of a football field.
He made a nationally televised address last night carried on all of the networks and in an event that undoubtedly has some of the Democrats a little nauseous this morning, the President took what might be a giant first step in his reelection campaign.
He talked in the speech about the war on terror, saying, quote it is not over, yet it is not endless, we do n't know the day of final victory, but we have seen the turning of the tide.
Here is the question this morning.
It's Friday, so if that question does n't tickle your fancy, knock yourselves out.
Write about anything and we 'll pick some of the best and read them later.
From yesterday, Tom writes, Hey, you guys, Bill and Jack, lighten up.