Journalists held a candle light vigil in Baghdad mourning the deaths of their colleagues.
Military fire killed three journalists in Baghdad today, one an Al Jazeera cameraman and Spanish television.
Al Jazeera says the U.S. deliberately targeted its facilities in Baghdad.
The Central Command denies that.
They say they were being used by the Iraqi military.
Here's how the network covered the incidents in this translated report.
Translator :
Many inquiries about the developments of shelling the media positions, why in whose interest is in targeting.
The interest is targeting the Al Jazeera office and the tanks went on shelling the office, which resulted in the martyrdom of colleague from Al Jazeera and others.
The next hit, in fact, targeted the Abu Dhabi office which is also very close to Al Jazeera surned by the U.S. forces.
The third hit was targeted to the Palestine Hotel where many journalists are working and a hit of a photographer.
A specialist.
People think the events are not put the media man in face of the weapons.
Looking for a shelter is not easy.
The U.S. and cooperation do not appreciate the city and others.
Everyone, in fact, is facing this threat.
That report from Al Jazeera through a translator, how they 're reporting this story and the two journalists who were killed today in that tank shell were killed at the Palestine Hotel.
That's been a base for international journalists in Baghdad.
Both of the dead were camera men one with reporters and one with Spain.
Three journalists were wounded in that same incident.
A Central Command says American forces were responding to what they described as, quote, significant fire coming at them from inside the hotel.
Joining me here in Kuwait City a journalist who knows first hand the dangers of covering war, our chief international correspondent, Christian A Manpower.
That's your take on what may have happened in these I understand did n't.
The death of this Al Jazeera reporter and these two camera men.
Two separate locations.
Separate but close.
I think it's bearing an investigation.
First what happened and why they were hit.
Secondly the Pentagon has been essentially all over the place.
The military spokesmen have been all over the map in--