We have an update now on a dramatic story that people everywhere around the world are talking about.
Last week we told you about Aaron Ralston, the 27-year-old outdoorsman who amputated his own arm with a pocket knife after spending five days pinned by a boulder.
For the first time we 're hearing from his parents and they 're sharing some thoughts about what he told them about this amazing ordeal.
Arthel Neville is joining us from the CNN newsroom in Atlanta with details.
First of all, if I could update you on Aaron's progress.
Over the weekend he was upgraded to fair condition and he was scheduled to have surgery today to prepare what remains of his arm for a prosthetic.
His ordeal started a week ago Saturday when he was climbing in remote canyons in Utah alone.
When he put his arm into a crack in the canyon wall, an 800 pound boulder shifted, pinning him right there.
Now three days later his water ran out and on the fifth day he made the unimaginable decision to amputate his arm below the elbow with a pocket knife.
He applied a turn to keep from bleeding to death.
He climbed back down to the canyon floor and hiked five miles before he was found.
Then Aaron was airlifted to a hospital where he was able to walk in on his own.
Now less than an hour ago, his parents spoke with reporters in Grand Junction, Colorado, where he is being treated.
Aaron mentioned that as he got near the destination the night before his trek, that he realized he had n't left word and he actually thought about making that call and thought it was too late.
Immediately when his boss called to say he had not reported for work, immediately I knew something really, really bad was wrong.
It was n't until just a few minutes after 3:00 on Thursday afternoon when the call came back again that they had found him and he was alive and all I could say was Thank God, and from there you all know pretty much what happened.
By the way this was n't Aron's first brush with death.
This year he and two friends survived an avalanche in Colorado, but if you think he's done, well he's not.
He's trying to become first person to climb all the Colorado mountains higher than 14,000 feet, and, Wolf, he wants to do this alone.
Arthel Neville this is an amazing story.
Thank you for sharing with us and our viewers all the latest developments.
We 'll continue to watch his progress.
Arthel Neville in the CNN news room.
Our web question of the day is this--
We 'll have the results immediately when he can woman back.
Deal.
We have a bachelorette party that wants to find a great hotel in Florida, and money's tight.
O shouting deination Orbitz Wellir.
Our new hotel matrix is loaded with options.
I just negotiated another Orbitz saver for a hotel in Miami.
In fact, Hunt and Starr are there right now.
This Orbitz savehote is amazing.
Close to the beach, and the view's magnificent.
It certainly is.