Hello, everyone.
I'm Holly Firfer, sitting in for Judy Fortin.
Here's our top story--
As Palestinians bury their dead, the violence in the streets of the Mideast continues, and Arab leaders begin a meeting in Cairo, trying to develop a unified position on the whole situation.
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak opened the emergency Arab League summit with a statement blaming Israel for adopting a belligerent attitude which threatens the essence of peace.
Palestinian Authority President Yasser Arafat accused Israel of `` mass killing and barbarian bombing. ''
He called on the Arab leaders to take a stand `` befitting the sacrifices '' of the Palestinian people.
Our choice is the choice of permanent, comprehensive and just peace, and our aim is to liberate our land and to create our independent state in Palestinian blast land with Jerusalem as its capital and the return of our refugees to their homes.
While leaders and spokesmen for both sides talk, the fighting goes on.
Richard Blystone reports on the latest round of violence in the Mideast.
The studied words of the diplomats and the cries in the street seem to come from two different worlds.
Fresh clashes in the Gaza Strip on the Mediterranean coast and in the West Bank.
Fighting springs from the funerals for at least nine Palestinians killed Friday in some of the worst clashes in this three-week conflict.
A new intifada, successor to the four-year street campaign that ended with PalestinianIsraeli negotiations a decade ago, according to a leader of Yasser Arafat's Fateh movement.
A counterview from Dan Meridor, chairman of Israel's defense and foreign affairs committee.
When I hear the Palestinians saying on television we are at the war of independence of Palestine, I understand they prefer war to peace.
A stupid and difficult historic mistake, but we have to face it.
Overnight, a new development on Israel's northern border.
The defense reports an attack at the border fence.
One body was found after Israelis responded with small arms, tanks and helicopters from Lebanon.
The Hezbollah movement which waged a war of attrition with the Israelis before they withdrew from south Lebanon in May, says its fighters were not involved.
As the weeks wear on, the words of diplomats and leaders seem more and more irrelevant.
Reaction follows reaction.
The initiative is in the streets.
Richard Blystone, CNN, Jerusalem.
The U.N. General Assembly has passed a resolution that is critical of Israel's use of force against Palestinians.
It also condemns Israeli excessive use of force by Palestinians.
It calls Israeli settlements in the occupied territories illegal and an obstacle to peace.
46 nations abstained from the vote.
Six others oppose the measure, including Israel and the United States.
They say it sends a negative message.