On we go in the meantime.
Again, today, there were disturbing hints, and we underscore hints here, that coalition forces may soon face an attack using chemical weapons.
Yesterday the story centered on intelligence regarding enemy intentions.
Today the evidence is somewhat more tangible.
Reporting for us, CNN's David Ensor.
Reporter :
The evidence is accumulating that Iraq may be planning to use chemical weapons.
Gas masks turning up in abandoned trenches.
In Nasiriyah in a building marked as a hospital U.S. Marines found weapons, atropine antidote kits, and that was not all.
They found over 3,000 chemical suits and gas masks as well as a number of Iraqi military uniforms.
Reporter :
The findings are heightening concerns among coalition forces approaching Baghdad since, as the Iraqis should know, U.S. and British forces do not use chemical weapons.
U.S. officials say some intelligence indicates a red line may have been drawn around the capital with Republican Guard units ordered to use chemical weapons once U.S. and allied troops cross it.
There is also intelligence, officials say, suggesting Republican Guard units have been issued artillery shells containing chemical agents.
There has been intelligence scraps, who knows how accurate they are, chatter in the system, that suggests that the closer that coalition forces get to Baghdad and Tikrit the greater the likelihood and that some command and control arrangements have been put in place.
Reporter :
In Baghdad Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz repeated his government's stand--it does not have any kind of weapons of mass destruction.
Translator :
When they started to talk about the weapons of mass destruction, we know and we always knew that that was fabrication and lies.
Reporter :
Experts say Saddam Hussein's forces will likely try to hold out in Baghdad for as long as possible without using the weapons his government insists it does not have, hoping to build international pressure on the U.S. and Britain to back down.
In that sense any use of chemical weapons would be counterproductive to Saddam, because it would only galvanize international--