Our top story is a summit with a daunting task--how to end Israeli-Palestinian violence that has killed 100 people in the last two weeks.
President Clinton is expected to leave for Egypt, site of the summit, this afternoon.
He 'll join Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak and Palestinian Authority President Yasser Arafat tomorrow at what's expected to be a one-day meeting.
Mr. Clinton says the goal of the summit is to stop the violence, agree on a `` fact finding mechanism '' to look into what caused the unrest and get back on the peace track.
United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan today discussed plans for the summit with the host, Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak.
Afterwards, he said the crisis in the Middle East was a threat with implications beyond the region, with possible negative effects on oil prices and the world economy.
Both sides are pessimistic about the outcome of the summit.
Barak told his cabinet he believes the Palestinian leadership is not ready to make compromises that would bring lasting peace.
He said U.S. help will continue to be crucial.
I believe that an end to violence could be accomplished, and in a way should be accomplished.
I believe that the mechanism for making kind of tighter control, maybe American, Israeli, Palestinian mechanism to make sure that the security understandings are working.
Palestinian leaders are also issuing a bleak forecast.
One senior negotiator urged everyone not to have high expectations.
A Palestinian Council member says anger is growing.
Even the language betrays a sort of racist mentality, where they view the Palestinian people as either a regimented army or a herd of sheep to be given orders and to be led blindly.
No, the Palestinian people have a will of their own.
They have been long victimized.
They have suffered under the peace process and under the Israeli occupation, in a way which is most brutal and violent.
The Israelis have been using the peace process as a cover to perpetuate the occupation, and, therefore, the feelings of grievance, anger, justice, and victimization have been breaking up.