Secret new evidence has prompted another delay in the trial of two Libyans accused of bombing Pan Am Flight 103.
Tom Mintier has details.
Already in its sixth month, the Lockerbie trial of two Libyans accused of blowing up Pan Am Flight 103 over Scotland 12 years ago is moving at a snail's pace.
The latest series of delays come as new information has been revealed to the defense by the prosecution.
Such a move in the middle of a trial is considered highly unusual unless the information is so sensitive it could harm the case if not revealed during the trial.
The information includes details of six new potential witnesses and other information from six countries on three different continents.
It is not yet clear whether the new information will help or hurt the case against the two Libyans accused of blowing up the airplane.
Prosecutors have handed over a file described in court as being an inch thick.
Defense lawyers say the new information, if true, will have the greatest conceivable effect on the trial.
Two weeks ago, prosecutors revealed the existence of the new information and just this Monday, handed it over to defense lawyers.
Teams of investigators have now fanned out to conduct interviews related to this new information for the defense team.
That information could cause the trial to be delayed even further.
The defense team has already told the court that more time may be required to react to the new information.
So far, the three Scottish judges sitting to hear this case have not been told any of the details of the new information.
That may change next week if and when another delay in the trial is requested by the defense.
Just how important is the new information ?
That is difficult to say, because so far, only investigators and lawyers for the defense and prosection know what it is.
In court on Tuesday, one of the lawyers for the defense defended all the secrecy saying, `` lives are in danger. ''
At one time, there were predictions that this trial would be completed before November and the U.S. elections for President.
Now it is looking more likely to spill into the new year, but no one is exactly willing to say which new year.
Tom Mintier, CNN, Camp Zeist, The Netherlands.