Gregg Jarrett, they did get a unanimous court for this decision.
Absolutely, Brian.
It was very stern, very direct and it left no question, I think, in the minds of anybody that this court unanimously believes that certification should include the manual recount, and that is a clear victory for Vice President Al Gore.
The language here, really leaves no doubt.
The right of the people to cast their vote, the court said, is paramount.
The amended certifications must be accepted by November 26.
The reason they are picking that particular day is it allows, Brian, enough time for the aggrieved party, the losing party to file within 10 days a contest of the certification and that still allows enough time for the contest to be litigated through the courts primarily the circuit court and back to the Supreme Court if necessary and still meet the December 12 deadline for the Electoral College vote here.
Now, Greg, the only question that means anything at this hour.
We know their view is the hand counts should now be included.
Will it put Al Gore over the top in the race to match and exceed the votes of George W. Bush ?
It very well could, although, I must say that the Gore campaign has been somewhat disappointed by the number of votes they have not received thus far in the counties that are undertaking the manual recounts, Brian, but a lot of hand counts still must be tallied.
We are also including the undervotes of 10,000 in Palm Beach and junt votes of 10,000 in Miami-Dade as well.
Keep in mind, those were not registered by the computers because they either had a hanging chad or dimpled chad.
Those must be gone over by hand by each respective canvassing board.
So there are a lot of votes remaining there.
This is a Gore campaign to the White House.
Greg, just a logistic question, How long is it going take you to get the opinion run to you from the building behind you ?
I would say we should have it here in the next five minutes.
It depends how quickly the line moves.
We have two producers, I believe, near the front of the line.
It how quickly they get handed.
It reversed the two orders of the earlier trial court, Circuit Court Judge Terry Lewis.
The bottom line, this court rules unanimously the right of the people to have the votes counted is paramount, thus, the amended certifications to include the hand counts must be accepted by November 26.
In fact, it seemed to have some language here.
In fact, Brian I do have it handed to me now.
Let me take a the.
Brian, if for some reason the Secretary of State would n't accept by the 26th, the certification, it could be certified elsewhere.
Gregg Jarrett.
I should point out, he is a former lawyer himself and so can help put this into English.
Greg, go ahead, if you come to a passage we should hear.
I'm flipping through the summary of enacts because that is not important.
The summary of facts.
You flag us when you come to the first portion we should hear aloud.