Good evening.
The front page of tomorrow morning's Wall Street Post.
We 'll report that for the first time since before the Democratic convention, George W. Bush has grabbed the lead in the race for President.
Here's what they 're basing it on, the newest `` Washington Post ''ABC News poll showing a 50 %, 46 % race.
Much closer, however nrk our own tracking poll, a statistical dead heat at 43 %, 42 %.
But the trend line is clear.
Over the past several days, Gore's loss is quite literally Bush's gain.
So the stakes could tpwhot higher.
Tomorrow night, Winston Salem, North Carolina, seated at a table with Jim Lehrer, both candidates will face off for 90 minutes with Americans listening for closely at home so.
We begin tonight with a new leader in some of these polls, Texas governor George W. Bush.
NBC News correspondent David Gregory is traveling with him.
Bush in Tennessee today where the race on the home turf is surprisingly tight, announcing the endorsement of prominent Democrats including Griffen Bell, and taunting Gore who earlier this year was accused by a tenant of failing to properly maintain rental property he owns in the state.
Tennessee is a fine place to live, I guess it depends, though, on who your landlord is.
Both sides have gone negative, but advisors say Bush will avoid getting personally involved for fear of a backlash, leaving his top aides to attack Gore by calling him a serial exaggerator.
A bigger worry to some advisors is it's Bush himself giving Gore room to attack his readiness to be President.
Over the weekend in Florida, Bush offers a tangled description of his tax plan and has to turn to his brother to ask if the numbers add up.
I was trying to do some fuzzy math.
Late last week, a labored attempt to give an undecided voter a reason to support him.
I'm groping for the right answer, as you can tell.
I'm weaving around.
You tell your friend that I think I 've got the capacity to reach across the partisan line.
Advisors maintain such gaffes are hardly decisive that the election will turn on a general comfort level that undecided voters have with both candidates, terrain where they believe Bush still has an advantage.
David Gregory, NBC News, with the Bush campaign in Greensboro, North Carolina.