It will be one of the first election returns on Tuesday.
It will also be among the most important.
As we continue our coverage of presidential politics with a look at the last-minute battle to win a crucial swing state, Florida.
25 electoral votes.
It's being fought over hard.
With a look at how the candidates are getting out the vote there, here's NBC News correspondent Kerry Sanders.
The image of Florida, both fact and fiction.
A great getaway, a state where a mouse wields more power than a tropical paradise.
While the mild winters make this comfortable living for almost three million seniors, the largest elderly population in the United States, this year it is not the weather drawing Al Gore and George W. Bush to the Sunshine State.
Both candidates list 25 reasons to keep coming back, Florida's 25 electoral votes.
Polls show Florida is still up for grabs.
Both candidates have been here almost equally.
In fact, it's almost I dare you politics.
Each of them dares the other one to spend less time, money, and energy than they are at their own peril.
Elderly voters once again in Florida, the most important voting bloc because they actually vote more than any other group.
In this election, 45 % of those going to the voting booth are expected to be over the age of 65.
The issue most important to them, Social Security.
Pay down the nation's debt, strengthen Social Security, cut taxes for middle class family, save our environment.
Experience.
Vision.
Values.
Al Gore.
Why does Al Gore say one thing when the truth is another ?
His attacks on George Bush's Social Security plan, exaggerations.
The truth, nonpartisan analysis confirms George Bush's plan sets aside $ 2.4 trillion to strengthen Social Security.
Both candidates repeatedly talking about that one issue, but in Florida where there are more than 550 children born every day, families drive the other campaign issues.
Polls show education, the environment, and the candidate's character will influence who voters choose.
And in this diverse state with a 15 % Hispanic population, both candidates courting their votes in ways not seen in any previous election.
Following both conventions, Gore and Bush granted their first live TV interviews to this man.
His name, Jorge Ramos, the Tom Brokaw of Spanish language news.
The race gets really, really close, and let's suppose that states like Florida and Illinois might decide the election.
maybe, maybe Hispanic votes might decide, too, who would be the next President of the United States.
The largest Hispanic voting bloc of Florida, Republican voters who do not seem to be crossing the party line.
Gore wanted the young Cuban boy, Elian Gonzalez to stay in this country.
Joe Lieberman brings Gore support he probably would have gotten here anyway.
Sizable Jewish and African-American voting blocs.
Of the 10 largest states, Florida is the most Republican.
The Republican governor here, Jeb Bush was once expected to deliver his brother this state.
The managers of both campaigns saying in the end, the wipper may simply be determined by who gets more people to the voting booth.
Kerry Sanders, NBC News, Anaheim.