S did indeed buy herself a Yankees cap and a $ 200 million house and the next senator from New York will be Hillary Clinton.
Kelly standing by in New York where it will be a joyous affair.
As you announced that Hillary Clinton is calling Hillary Rodham Clinton as the next senator of New York, the crowd behind me burst into cheers, the band started playing, and the party here has begun.
To tell you some of the story behind the numbers that will send Hillary Rodham Clinton to the Senate, let me tell you what some of our exit polling data seems to suggest.
As far as a gender gap, voters who said they voted for Mrs. Clinton, 58 % of them women, 47 % men.
Now on the big issue the people thought would be the heart of this race, the notion that Mrs. Clinton was accused of being a carpet bagger, a woman born in Illinois, made much of her professional life in Arkansas and of course has been living in Washington until last year, voters said 52 % of them, that that issue did not matter to them at all.
Also an important constituency for Mrs. Clinton, the Jewish vote.
It appears she has earned 58 % of the Jewish vote.
This has been a tough race, too, where Rick Lazio, the congressman of eight years from Long Island was accused of being much more tough as a campaigner--
A lot of mud was slung on both sides of this race, but when voters were questioned about that, they said--68 % that Mr. Lazio attacked unfairly, and 57 % said Mrs. Clinton did.
So that's some of the picture that makes up the results tonight that sent Hillary Rodham Clinton to Washington.
Brian ?
All right, Kelly O'Donnell, thank you very much.
And about just how this vote went the way it did tonight in New York, Forrest Sawyer standing by with a look behind the numbers, really.
Forrest ?
A few more of those numbers Kelly was talking about for you to look at, Brian.
As she mentioned, men and women did split their vote.
Let's look at Jewish voters.
New Yorkers know that this was a huge battle over support for Israel and whether the support for Palestine was strong enough.
As you look at this, though, Jewish voters went by a big margin for Hillary Clinton.
58 % to Rick Lazio's 41 %.
New Yorkers remember the campaign debate where Rick Lazio walked over to Hillary Clinton and said you 're going to sign this pledge about campaign moneys, you 're going to sign it.
That.
Was she attacked unfairly, 68 % did say yes.
57 % went for Clinton, and as for Lazio's voters, a lot of people said this was a campaign about Hillary Clinton.
Rick Lazio is this other guy.
In fact they asked of his voters, how many voted against Hillary Clinton--
50 % said we 're voting against her, we 're not voting for Rick Lazio, we 're voting against Senate Hillary, and that shows you that, in fact, as Chris pointed out, she really is a tremendous lightning rod.
This campaign was about Hillary Clinton, do you like her or do you not.
Scombrort of Hillary Clinton voters were voting for Hillary Clinton, not against Rick Lazio, and on the which one attacked the other more unfairly, the voters said that Lazio attacked Hillary Clinton more unfairly, and that possibly played into the gap in the Jewish vote, which is heavily in favor of Hillary Clinton.
In addition to the scene that you mentioned, the debate, where Lazio invaded her space, as they say, he hit very hard in the last two weeks on issues involved in the Middle East.
The Republican campaign, not directly through Lazio, but others was actually associating in certain ways Mrs. Clinton's sympathies with the Arab sides in the Middle East with the attack on the battle ship Cole.
It got out of hand and so this vote could well be as much a rejection of the Lazio campaign as it is also a very positive setting about Hillary's numbers, and you remember after Rick Lazio had pressed her right in front of the debate crowd, they said What do you think of this and women said It reminds me of my husband or in some cases my ex-husband and I do n't like it and we see that women and particularly working women went by a large measure for Hillary Clinton, and Lawrence, there is this as well.
Opinions about her husband appear to have been important in voters ' decisions.
23 approve of the job that Bill Clinton is doing as President.
Hillary won that group 76 to 23.
Among those who disapprove of her husband, Lazio won 91, and it's certainly a different kind of race from the Moynihan races we 've grown accustomed to where the question was would he get 68 % of the vote or 69 % of the vote.
Like Hillary Clinton has come out on top by a very wide margin.
Thank you.