We realize that many of the people joining us here tonight for this broadcast are doing so to try to get more information.
These are uncertain times.
The nation has yet to elect a President-elect.
It's something Mike Barnicle said earlier on our air today that caught our eyes and ears and we 'd like Mike to come back here live.
You were talking about this country, how it felt to be an American today.
Yeah, Brian.
There is a sense of I think increasing despondency in the country as we continue on this.
Tuesday night was the longest night and it's turning into perhaps the longest month.
People are depressed enough about politics.
There's probably reason why these two candidates split this vote so evenly down the middle.
Neither one managed to ignite the hopes and dreams of Americans.
In `` U.S.A. Today '' there is a map 'am of the vote on Tuesday, the red for Bush, blue for Gore.
County by county assessment of how the vote went on Tuesday and it's sort of looking at the nation in terms of Wal-mart versus Martha Stewart.
People who believe in school player, gay marriage, people who drive Ford Explorers and who drive Volvo station wagons.
There are these splits in the country ands with as we increasingly head toward litigation in terms of who the next President of of the United States is going to be, more and more people are becoming more depressed about the process.
It gives them a sense of what they have felt for too long now, that politics is just name-callers, increased partisanship, special prosecutors, reliance on lawyers and things that do n't affect the ordinary person, that all that has now mushroomed into something called the Presidency of the United States and how we elect a President.
The fact that as we continue on this road and continue to talk about what's going to happen in Florida, the judges have really already spoken on this, the ultimate judges, the people.
Their decision is now being reviewed.
Accurately, I think, and what more people seem to be saying to me is that they want an accurate recount.
They want a legitimate recount, an announcement of it, they want a winner declared and they want a transition to begin.
NBC they on Tuesday.
They want a winner.
Mike Barnicle, `` New York Daily News. ''
Thank you for coming on tonight and repeating that for us.