Good evening.
After an exhausting presidential campaign and 36 long days spent fights over the outcome for President-elect Bush, the real work is just beginning.
The time for the transition to the new administration is dramatically reduced.
The stock market again signaled worries that recession may be looming and a sharply divided Congress is poised for grid lock.
Bush plans a conciliatory meeting with Vice President Gore next week and he enters the fray with good wishes from Republicans and Democrats alike.
From the wounds of a bitterly fought presidential contest in history, the President-elect has his work cut out for him.
We will look at challenges Mr. Bush is facing.
We begin where he began this journey, in Austin, Texas and NBC News correspondent Campbell Brown.
Bush spent most of the day on the telephone and in meetings, moving ahead at lightning speed putting together his administration.
Surrounded by friends, family, and top advisors, President-elect Bush and wife Laura attend a private prayer service.
He wanted to begin with a message of healing.
At the governor's mansion Bush's new presidential limosine arrives.
The President-elect writes thank-you notes and fields phone calls from leaders among them Tony Blair.
President wants America and Europe to stand side by side in the world.
I know he Britain and a friend of Europe.
Bush also reaches out to Senate and House leaders on Capitol Hill and receives a call from the Reverend Jesse Jackson who talks about healing the nation and election reform.
Bush spoke to Clinton and accepted an invitation to meet with Clinton in Washington and told the President he looks forward to working with the senator, Mrs. Clinton.
All of us have a responsibility to support President-elect Bush and unite the country in a search for common ground.
Bush's trip to Washington as President-elect early next week.
He plans to meet with lawmakers from both parties, potential cabinet members and on Tuesday face-to-face with Vice President Gore.
Bush has been invited to the Vice President's residence for that meeting.
Forrest, he has another interesting meeting tomorrow, he will sit down with John Breaux.
A Democrat, he has praised him on his work on Medicare reform.
He wanted to reach out to Democrats.
Tomorrow's meeting could signal a possible job offer for Breaux.