We have an update tonight on this, the volcano in Mexico, they call El Popo.
Just 24 hours after its first erruption in more than 1,000 years, the worst appears to be over, but there is still the possibility of great danger to the tens of thousands of people who live nearby.
Our report on this tonight from Kevin Tibbles.
As the sun rises over Mt. Popo tonight, the only hint of the fire storm inside, whiffs of smoke, but just a few hours earlier, the volcano exploding spewing rock and red-hot lava.
The fourth largest mountain in North American, nearly 18,000 feet high, erupting this week with its most violent outburst in 1200 years.
They say it is an especially dangerous volcano because of its steep slopes.
It could potentially wipe out everything in its path.
40,000 people live in the path.
Here at the National Natural Disaster Prevention Center, they are working around the clock.
It is here they take the volcano's pulse, calling it unstable, saying Popo is simply recharging, getting ready to erupt again.
It's acquiring more pressure, and eventually this pressure will be released in the future days.
The danger ?
The heat from Popo's lava flow is melting the glaciers on the sides of the mountain and could trigger mud slides.
It's like concrete coming down instead of water.
So, they will destroy anything that tries to stop them.
The Mexican government is taking no chances.
It sent out 1,000 troops to force an evacuation inside an eight-mile radius.
Tonight, 20,000 people in shelters, but another 20,000 refuse to leave, worried about their corn harvests or who would feed their animals.
If a major danger was to come, says this man, then we 've got to run.
There's no other choice.
Scientists say Popo has a huge crater about half a mile across, about 300 feet deep and a lava dome is building up like an upside-down grapefruit.
In contrast, Mt. Saint Helen had a dome, almost as if it was pregnant.
Randy White, who has done on-site studies of this mountain, monitors the rhythms.
It is blowing in its own way.
It could get bigger.
We do n't know how to predict it exactly.
For centuries here, the people have had almost a mystical relationship with Popo, believing the volcano is a god, showering their crops with rain.
Tonight, they fear it will turn vengeful, bringing destruction after 1200 years of peace.