Which leads us to NBC News `` in depth ''--the Truth Squad, checking the facts.
Between now and election day, a team of NBC News correspondents will review what the presidential candidates say to s if they are telling the truth.
We begin tonight with the huge federal surplus.
Both Al Gore and George W. Bush have different ideas on how to spend that extra money.
The last time presidential candidates had that luxury was in 1960--Richard Nixon and John F. Kennedy facing off over a $ 300 million surplus, not adjusted for inflation.
Now NBC's chief financial correspondent Mike Jensen on the new surplus and all the talk behind it, `` in depth. ''
Tod and Tammy Williams of Texas counting on George W. Bush's proposed $ 1.6 trillion tax cut.
I have a lot of faith in him and believe that he 'll do what he says he 'll do.
Patti and Gary Thompson of New Jersey prefer Al Gore's plan to pay off the nation's $ 3.5 half dollar national debt.
Keep the good times rolling.
Employment is very high right now, and we have good jobs.
But both candidates ' economic plans cost a fortune, and the question is, Will there be enough money ?
What's the truth ?
Are Bush and Gore making campaign promises they ca n't possibly keep ?
The nonpartisan Center on Budget and Policy Priorities did an exhaustive study of the surplus.
The authors ' conclusion ?
Beware of smoke and mirrors from both candidates.
I would have some skepticism toward both plans.
They 're being overly optimistic in what they can actually deliver.
Both Gore and Bush rely on predictions from the Congressional Budget Office that the government will take in $ 4.5 trillion more than it spends over the next ten years.
About half that surplus is for Social Security, leaving $ 2.2 trillion for tax cuts and new government programs.
Sounds good, but many economists say that's hugely optimistic because of economic assumptions by both candidates that wo n't necessarily pan out.
For example, government spending is assumed by the candidates to rise only at the rate of inflation, while, in truth, analysts say it's been rising 20 % faster than that.
Both candidates also assume strong economic growth resulting in that huge surplus.
The truth ?
If the economy takes a major hit, more than just a mild recession, experts say you can subtract $ 1 trillion from the surplus.
`` Business Week '' magazine puts it bluntly--`` Newsday '' calls their promises `` pie in the sky. ''
`` The New York Times '' says they 're `` unrealistically optimistic. ''
Analysts warning the Thompsons of New Jersey, the Williamses of Texas and America's 80 million other voters.
When the numbers are in trillions, with promises to match, keep your hand on your wallet.
Mike Jensen, NBC News, New York.