NBC's David Gregory is at his post as well in Austin, Texas.
David any reaction from the Bush team on the Democrats ' plan to contest the vote in Miami-Dade ?
Well, John, there has been reaction from the Bush team.
You know, this decision by the Gore campaign, a refusal to concede even if they do not prevail in the manual recounts under way certainly carries some political risk, but the Gore team tonight defends the decision, saying that fellow Democrats and the public would not only accept but demand what they call a fair and accurate recount in all the relevant counties.
The Bush team, responding quickly saying there would not be such support and that in that scenario Gore could only be seen as a sore loser.
Despite the holiday, there is no letup in the fight for Florida.
A holiday legal victory to be thankful for, George and Laura Bush, all smiles in Austin today before a pot luck Thanksgiving meal with their twin daughters and friends.
The Texas governor makes time for recreation with a morning jog and prepares for some fishing at his ranch this weekend.
The Vice President out of sight today at his residence, aides saying the entire family together for a meal and football on TV.
While the Gore menu remains a family secret, the Bush clan all to happy to share some of his favorite fare--jalapeno pecan cornbread stuffing and coconut cake.
For vice presidential candidate Dick Cheney, turkey in the hospital with his wife and daughter this afternoon.
After suffering a mild heart attack yesterday, his fourth, doctors say today he's recovering well.
Cheney gets a checkup call from Governor Bush and still expects to be released as early as tomorrow, and today, President Clinton cautiously speaks out about the Florida vote fight, saying everyone should, `` let the process play out. ''
I want everybody who tried to vote who legally voted to have their vote count, including service people.
Everybody.
Tonight for both George Bush and Al Gore and their war rooms all their advisers, this really comes down to a numbers game.
Everybody keeping a sharp eye on these recount tallies and on Sunday's deadline at 5:00 p.m..
John ?
NBC's David Gregory in Austin.
David, thank you.
Up next, from recounts to--