Even with all the growth in online shopping in the past few years, this Christmas could be the last one for many dotcom retailers.
With our ongoing inside look at eToys, one of the symbols of the new economy, we continue `` in depth '' tonight with NBC's Anne Thompson.
`T is the season to send Americans shipping--190 million packages between Thanksgiving and Christmas, many purchased online, but internet retailers, once a force behind the boom, now fighting for their very survival, and many say the one to watch is eToys.
EToys is in a very precarious position, this holiday season.
The one-time dotCom wunderkind, 4 years old and still losing money this season, trying to steady itself with a new delivery system.
How does a toy go from your computer screen to your Christmas tree ?
To find out, we ordered one of the season's hottest items--a Razor scooter.
The order went from Chicago to Ontario, California, where it is processed, and Suzanne Horsey picks it off a shelf.
I walk up and down these aisles probably about a million times.
She puts it on a cart.
It's boxed and begins a half-mile trip.
One of tens of thousands of orders each day, this one is wrapped packaged, labeled and, four hours later, shipped.
Everybody in the building knows that we 're playing one game, and that is speed and accuracy.
In financial districts it's a different game.
EToys needs cash.
With only enough money to survive, analysts say, until Mid, it needs a strong holiday to revive investors ' confidence.
Ken Cassar, who tracks these businesses, says eToys ' hopes of doubling its holiday sales this year to as much as $ 240 million is a difficult task in this economy, especially when online sales, while still growing quickly, will only increase at one-half last year's rate.
The macroeconomic picture is not a pretty one because oil prices are so high and consumers have less money in their pocketbooks.
But they are spending money on scooters.
Our scooter is driven to Denver, sorted by ZIP code and then loaded to another truck and brought to Rainbow House, a children's charity.
From the computer to the Christmas tree, and happiness for a child.
EToys, an economic symbol of the season.
The question tonight, will it survive to help play Santa Claus next year ?
Anne Thompson, NBC News, Chicago.