NBC news `` in depth '' tonight--air delays in a year that's seen more than ever before.
As we head into another heavy holiday travel period, delays are making life miserable for thousands of travelers, and one airport more than any other is Delay Central.
That's New York's LaGuardia Airport.
A year ago, there were 3,100 delayed flights at La Guardia for the month of September.
This September--there were 9,000, almost triple the delay rate.
What's going on at this busy airport, and why is it affecting travelers all around the country ?
That was the subject of a congressional hearing today.
Here's NBC's Robert Hager, `` in depth. ''
9:00 this morning at New York's La Guardia Airport, the weather is perfect, but already there are delays, a long line waiting to take off.
La Guardia's runways can handle a maximum of 75 takeoffs and landings an hour, but between 8:00 and 9:00 a.m. each day, airlines schedule 93, a mathematical impossibility, and it stays that way nearly all day long.
In and out of La Guardia, it's always delayed, so I always expect to be delayed and to have extra time to blow at the airport.
I fly almost every weekend, and this airport is one I least like to come in and out of.
Elsewhere at Delta cancellations because of labor problems with pilots are so bad that today the airline announces a cutback of up to 125 flights a day for the foreseeable future.
If an airline is having problems with its crew or labor problems, you probably do n't want to book a flight on that airline.
This year's been an all-time record for flight delays nationwide.
1,500 flights every day, flying late now, 55 % more than last year, nearly 100 % more than two years ago.
Instead of cutting flights, Congress and the government recently raised the limit at La Guardia, and airlines rushed in, adding 300 more flights a day.
At a hearing today, the tempers of New York lawmakers boiled over.
First you are number 35.
Then you are number 26.
Then there is another reason.
We get a different excuse every 15 or 20 minutes.
When the plane lands, you ca n't find a gate.
Just yesterday, in an admission that adding flights at La Guardia may have been a mistake, the FAA makes a unique attempt to offer some relief--an unusual lottery mixing up the names of airlines in a bowl and drawing to see which of the newest airlines adding flights at La Guardia get to stay and which have to cut back.
American Transair, Vanguard, Spirit.
It's the first time in 14 years that the government resorts to a lottery like this to regulate the number of flights at an airport.
As a result, airlines will have to get rid of 131 flights a day at La Guardia by February.
The sort of regulation airlines hate.
But if delays continue to grow, it could force similar moves for other airports in a desperate effort to ease the gridlock with no other ready solution in sight.
Washington.