NBC News `` In Depth '' tonight.
Hillary Rodham Clinton made history today--the first ever First Lady to be elected to public office and the world's most exclusive club--the U.S. Senate.
After spending most of her life in support of her husband's political career, watching him get sworn in over and over again it was his turn today to watch from the sidelines as she took the oath of office.
Our `` In Depth '' report tonight, from NBC's Andrea Mitchell.
She is first among equals, America's first First Lady politician.
Will you raise your right hand--
97th in seniority, but when the oath is later re-enacted for all the senators, she jumps to the head of the line, even ahead of Republican leader Trent Lott--
`` security concerns '' for her husband, officials claim.
For this political wife, friends say, a dream come true.
Today he holds the Bible for her, trading places from when they first came to Washington eight years ago.
From the health care fiasco to the Monica humiliation--I did not have sexual relations with that woman, to the campaign many said she could never win, Hillary Clinton is now the most admired woman in America, beating Oprah by a landslide in the latest Gallup poll.
I am thrilled.
I could n't be more proud.
I could not be more happy.
I am very grateful to the people of New York, and I think she will do them proud.
It was really a very moving moment for both of us.
I kept looking at him in the gallery with my daughter, and, you know, it was very emotional for me.
But how will she fit in among 99 other ambitious politicians ?
The Senate has 100 people who think they can be President, and she is only one of them, but she is different.
For instance, the senior senator from New York is hardly camera-shy.
I 'll make you this promise--I will do my best not to steal Hillary's limelight.
And while Chuck Schumer bunks on work nights with three fellow congressmen in this rowhouse and other freshmen senators rent small apartments--I got two bedrooms and a sofa bed so my children can come when they feel like it, Hillary and her husband buy a new $ 2.8 million mansion.
She needs an address, and I 'd like to have someplace to come see her.
Friends even register her china, a soup tureen goes for more than $ 2,000, but now that she's sworn in, Senate ethics rules forbid gifts worth more than $ 100.
She 'll have to rely on her husband's earnings and her $ 8 million book deal, but she's still being entertained by friends.
How are you ?
Tonight, at a party hosted by Democratic fund-raiser Walter Kay, the supporter who first sent a young intern named Monica to the Clinton White House.
Andrea Mitchell, NBC News, Washington.