NBC's Claire Shipman now with the Vice President's day back in Washington.
Claire ?
Sources tell us Al Gore has not made up his mind how far he will push the effort in Florida.
they say they still think they could win.
As for the courts, we 're told that decision is not likely to be made until November 17th, when the final tally is in.
Al Gore, in a deliberate attempt to publicly relax, in the midst of tension of the highest order.
I think we 're going to win this game.
We were ahead 6, so I'm very optimistic.
We 're talking about the touch football game.
Sources say he and his team are also still optimistic about a win in the recount, because they believe a manual count will turn up mistakes in Gore's favor.
Meanwhile, the Gore Florida team today asserting there is still a lot of work to be done before naming the President-elect.
I hope all Americans agree the will of the people, not a computer glitch should select our next President.
I think we pledged ourselves to try to keep the rhetoric as low as possible, given the situation, and try to carry it out in a professional way.
Why ?
As Gore considers his options with his family, advisers say he and the campaign realize they are operating on two distinct and delicate tracts--legal, which they will pursue to keep options open, and political, which they have to watch carefully as they feel mounting pressure.
Friends point out that the man who was so quick to concede the first time to George W. Bush when he thought he lost and who told aides, `` we have to do this right, '' is not a politician who would insist on a long, damaging legal process, if it is determined that's what going to court would mean.
Bill Clinton called Al Gore today to talk to him, less to offer advice than support.
Finally, friends tell us tonight that Gore and his family are also focused on the--
They believe depending on what happens, Gore has a strong platform right now from which to launch a presidential bid in the year 2000 had, and that is part of the calculation.
Tom ?
Thanks very much, Claire Shipman tonight.