The `` USS Cole '' is on its long journey home tonight, sitting atop a rescue ship, and now, for the first time, its open wound fully visible.
NBC's Jim Miklaszewski tonight at the Pentagon with an exclusive report on the damage done and the difficulty in finding those responsible.
Jim ?
What's the latest there ?
New pictures reveal the sheer power of that terrorist bomb that ripped through the `` USS Cole. ''
For the first time, with the `` Cole '' out of the water, the full impact of the catastrophic blast clearly visible.
In these photos obtained by NBC News, the damage much larger than first imagined, extending well below the water line.
Workers on deck dwarfed by the 40 x 60-foot gaping wound.
Large sections of the hull buckled inward.
Crewman Sean Powell, back home in Florida, says inside the `` Cole, '' it was chaos, it got dark, we lost power, ship started to list, that's what scared everybody.
Despite the devastating damage, Navy officials predict the `` Cole '' can be repaired for about $ 150 million, and put back into service.
Justice Department officials say in Yemen, the FBI's investigation is dead in the water.
Senior U.S. officials tell NBC News the Yemen government has all but shut down all cooperation in finding those behind the `` Cole '' attack.
Evidence is either withheld or tampered with.
A surveillance video of the harbor at the time of the attack was so heavily edited, it did n't even show the blast itself.
Why ?
Yemen is a terrorist hotbed, and some members of President Saleh's own cabinet have direct ties to radical Islamic extremists and terrorists.
It's hard to see exactly why it is that the President there would ever want to cooperate with the United States and possibly put himself in jeopardy.
Reporter :
And even though cooperation from Yemen is at a standstill, U.S. officials tell NBC News that they are making substantial progress in the investigation and are fully confident they will get enough evidence to retaliate against those responsible.
Tom ?
Thanks very much, NBC's Jim Miklaszewski tonight.