Now to the new face and shape of Congress.
Republicans are still in the majority, but the election has eaten away at the size of that majority.
In the House of Representatives, Democrats are likely to pick up two seats, and in the Senate, there could be a historic shift in the balance of power.
Here's NBC's Lisa Myers.
The first first lady ever elected to public office--Hillary Clinton becomes an instant celebrity in the Senate, serving alongside Republicans who tried to convict her husband during impeachment.
I think I will get a very positive reception.
I have worked with a number of the Republican members in the past.
Today the Senate's top Republican offers an olive branch and some advice.
It would be wise for her to take a little time maybe to just observe things and get used to the process and not try to, you know, assert too aggressively her obvious celebrity status.
Otherwise, a lot of shell-shocked Republican senators today, stunned after losing a net three and probably four seats.
The casualties--Roth of Delaware, Abraham of Michigan, Grams of Minnesota, perhaps Gorton of Washington--though that's still too close to call--and Ashcroft of Missouri.
Ashcroft lost to the first dead man ever elected to the Senate, former Governor Mel Carnahan, who perished in a plane crash and whose wife will be appointed to his seat.
Missouri is a compassionate state, and I think in a very special way, they have demonstrated the compassion which they have.
The strong likelihood of a 5050 tie in the Senate, which would be unprecedented, sent historians and parliamentarians scrambling for answers.
If Bush wins, Dick Cheney, the Vice President, would break ties in the Senate.
If Gore wins, Lieberman would resign his Senate seat and almost certainly be replaced by a Republican, appointed by Connecticut's Republican governor.
That would give Republicans a 51 majority.
Either way, every vote is critical every day.
I jokingly said the most important person in the Capitol is the Capitol physician, making sure he takes the pulse of every senator every morning.
Today, Democrats demand more power, reflecting their new equal numbers.
We recognize and I hope they recognize that the only way that Congress will accomplish anything is through bipartisanship.
The sharply divided Congress only complicates the task of the new Prez.
Whether it's Bush or Gore, many here say he may quickly find that getting elected was the easy part.
Lisa Myers, NBC News, the Capitol.