In the waters off the coast of Yemen, two urgent missions tonight collecting evidence from the suicide bombing and retrieving bodies still buried in debris.
316 were aboard the `` USS Cole '' when the terrorists struck.
Dozens were injured.
17 were killed.
Our coverage begins with NBC's Joe Johns.
A plane carrying the bodies of five dead American sailors from the `` USS Cole '' arrived today at Dover Air Force Base, as the first wave of forensics experts and investigators from the Department of Defense and the FBI arrived in Yemen.
Their mission--to continue the search for evidence and suspects in the explosion.
Also on the way, equipment to lift the `` Cole '' out of the water and specialists to help retrieve the bodies of those trapped and presumed dead.
We know there are spaces that are inaccessible.
We know there are some remains in those spaces.
We need to get in those and locate the remains that we anticipate finding there.
Though the work was only beginning, a top Justice Department official in Washington predicted the outcome of the investigation.
I'm confident that we will be able to determine who was behind the bombing and that those people, those organizations, will be held accountable, they will be punished.
This critical phase of the investigation must be conducted both above and beneath the water on a tight time line.
They 'll want to get in there quickly because one of the problems when you 're dealing with seawater is that it will have an adverse effect on your evidence.
To further speed up the process, the FBI has now activated the Strategic Information and Operation Center in Washington, conceived after the bombings of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, ensuring the fastest possible exchange of information between investigators and the decision makers.
On the diplomatic front, the U.S. said the government of Yemen is cooperating with the investigation, though that country's President disputes charges that his nation is a haven for terrorists.
The Justice Department says no group or individual has been ruled out as a suspect, though many expect that whoever gets the blame will eventually be tied to the terrorist Osama bin Laden.
And the grieving continued today at the Naval Academy's football game against Notre Dame.
A moment of silence to remember the victims of this terrorist act.
Joe Johns, NBC News.