We begin with the attack on the `` USS Cole '' with NBC's Jim Miklaszewski at the Pentagon.
Jim, what's the latest there ?
Tonight, the latest casualty figures are 6 dead, 11 missing and 36 wounded, but Navy officials predict that death toll will surely rise in what is the worst terrorist attack against a U.S. Navy ship in modern history.
The gaping, blackened hole in the side of the `` USS Cole '' is all the evidence the Navy's top officer needs to declare this a terrorist attack.
I have no reason to think that this was anything but a senseless act of terrorism.
The destroyer, one of the most powerful ships in the U.S. Navy, is on its way to the Persian Gulf when it stops at Yemen to take on fuel.
Yemen is considered a high threat area.
The crew is already on a heightened state of alert.
So then, how did the attackers get so close ?
Navy officials report the `` Cole '' pulls up to an offshore pier in the middle of Aden Harbor, preparing to refuel.
One of the small harbor boats, hired by the U.S. to help moor the destroyer, takes one of the ship's lines, ties it to a buoy, then returns.
It's normally a routine operation, so no one aboard the `` Cole '' has the slightest suspicion the ship is about to be attacked.
Two men aboard the small boat suddenly snap to attention as if following orders.
Then, the blast--an enormous explosion that tears a huge gash in the side of the ship.
Seawater rushes through the 20 x 40-foot hole.
The crew fights desperately to save the ship.
They have performed superbly.
They dispatch medical teams.
The 11 missing presumed trapped.
In Congress tonight, outrage and a warning to those responsible.
We will find you, we will punish you, and the price that we will exact will by far exceed anything you may have gained by inflicting this outrageous act of terrorism.
How may I help you ?
A vigil for the dead and survivors.
I talked to the two ombudsmen.
They want to pass along to have everybody say a prayer.
A new concern tonight.
Two Navy ships are steaming to the area to provide security.
Because the `` Cole '' is in a high-threat area, it is loaded with cruise missiles and sitting dead in the water.
Thanks, Jim Miklaszeski.