And one of the longest running struggles for international justice reached a milestone today of sorts, when a Scottish court, meeting in the Netherlands, finally officially found someone guilty in the 1988 bombing that brought down Pan Am Flight 103.
He's a Libyan intelligence agent and as NBC's Jim Maceda reports tonight from the court, many of the families of the victims think the verdict did n't go far enough.
Today was D-Day in the murder trial which in the end brought some relief.
For grieving families, only a partial victory.
After 12 years of waiting and a nine-month trial, family members of some of the victims of Pan Am Flight 103 come to this special Scottish courthouse in the Netherlands one last time to hear the verdict against two Libyan defendants charged with murder.
A split decision for Lamen Khalifa Fhimah, aquittal, but Abdel Basset Ali Al-megrahi found guilty as charged.
The court ruled this senior Libyan intelligence agent planted the bomb that killed 270, mostly Americans, when the plane bound for New York exploded over Lockerbie, Scotland.
Inside the courtroom today, the elation overwhelming.
A good many of the relatives gasped.
There was a big intake of breath.
Jim Swire, whose daughter died in the 1988 crash, collapses.
He later recovered, blaming stress.
But Al-megrahi's sentence, 20 years in jail, too light for Brian Flynn.
His brother was on Flight 103.
It was n't one murder it was 270 people he murdered.
Frustration too that Moammar Khaddafi was immune from prosecution, one of the ground rules here.
You get the operatives.
You do n't always get the higherups.
Reaction in Libya, where many followed the trial, mixed.
Some anger in the streets, but government officials downplaying the conviction, calling for an end to international sanctions.
Not yet, says President George W. Bush, at the White House today, demanding that Khaddafi meet certain conditions first, to accept responsibility for this act, and to compensate the families.
But even that would fall short for those who have lost loved ones.
Tonight, some of those families made it clear their battle is not over to get to the truth and however difficult, punish the real authors of this crime.
Tom ?
Thanks very much, NBC's Jim Maceda tonight for the trial of the Lockerbie 103 Pan Am crash.