Now to Yugoslavia, where a people's revolt over the past few days has led to a dramatic change.
A new President was officially sworn in today, bringing an end to the reign of Slobodan Milosevic.
NBC's Jim Maceda reports from Belgrade.
In a simple ceremony before the newly elected parliament, Vojislav Kostunica took his oath of office late tonight as President of Yugoslavia, marking the end of 13 years of autocratic rule under Slobodan Milosevic.
It was a scene few Serbs would have deemed possible only weeks ago, but it almost did n't happen, delayed by Milosevic's party, which still controls the parliament.
After meetings earlier today with a series of foreign dignitaries, Kostunica admitted that Milosevic may be down, but not out.
`` difficult times are behind us, '' he said, `` but the days ahead also hold many trials. ''
His main priority--bringing Serbia back into the international community after a decade of economic sanctions.
Many believe he has the credentials.
A man who believes in democracy but who holds strong Serb views.
Seen here armed with a machine gun, supporting the Serb cause in Kosovo.
In a recent interview with NBC News, highly critical of U.S. policy in the Balkans, especially the indictment of Milosevic for war crimes.
In some sense, it is sort of interfering in the affairs of another state.
Kostunica had already publicly said he would never turn Milosevic over to the Hague tribunal.
Then, yesterday, just before Milosevic publicly conceded defeat, a one-hour meeting with Kostunica--their first ever--said to be cordial.
Details have yet to be revealed, but at the very least, sources say, there was an exchange of guarantees for Kostunica, a peaceful hand-over of power, and in return, safety and comfort inside Serbia for Milosevic.
Milosevic even intends to continue his political career, as leader of his party, worrying many who opposed him.
As long as he's on the soil of this state, no one will be able to sleep quietly.
Tonight, despite poor weather, thousands of Serbs celebrated a new era of freedom, with the fate of their former dictator still in doubt.
Jim Maceda, NBC News, Belgrade.