In Yugoslavia today, a Belgrade court indited six members of electoral commissions on charges that they abused their official functions.
Last September, Yugoslavia's Federal Election Commission published results of a presidential vote, results which, if anyone had believed them, would have necessitated a run off between Slobodan Milosevic and Vojislav Kostunica.
There was no run off, of course, Serbs would n't stand for it.
Now three months later Kostunica is no longer opposing the government.
He is running it.
The World's Jackie Rolan reports from Belgrade.
The popular uprising which swept Vojislav Kostunica to power, hundreds of thousands of people took to the streets in early October to force Slobodan Milosevic to accept his election defeat and step down.
In the two months since then the United Nations and Western governments have rushed to welcome Yugoslavia back into the international fold, but at home the most noticeable change has been a sharp increase in the cost of living.
President Kostunica says this is inevitable but he sees better times ahead.
We are living all under very difficult conditions.
Social aspirations is very difficult and that is something which has to do with Milosevic regime, sanctions of international community, bombing of this country last year, but what people mostly appreciate is that sense of freedom.
The West has been rewarding the democratic reforms in Serbia with big aid packages, but the money comes with some conditions attached.
Western governments want Serbia to cooperate with the International War Crimes Tribunal in the Hague.
The Tribunal has been allowed to open an office in Belgrade, but it's not clear how far this cooperation will go.
President Kostunica says he does not agree with demands that Milosevic should be extradited to The Hague.
I am not in favor of that I must say.
I am in favor of trying to go through these processes of responsibility within the country.
I have a very general and many very general objections to the Hague Tribunal.
I can not imagine that just one judicial instant, just one court is actually enough to cope this problems.
After winning the presidency in September, Kostunica and his allies now face a much easier task with Serbian parliamentary elections in less then two weeks time.
The latest opinion polls suggest they will get about 65 % of the vote, while Milosevic and his party would be lucky to win more then a few seats.
The opposition coalition has been an alliance of convenience and President Kostunica admits that it will not last long beyond the elections.
We had to run through these republic elections and with all these differences we are staying till these elections, and later on when we come to some elections, of course, quite normally and for the good of democracy, these differences between the parties within Democratic Opposition of Serbia will appear.
The splits are already visible with public disagreements between Kostunica and Zoran Djindjic, the man expected to form the new Serbian government, so the country faces more political instability in the year ahead and the likely prospect of new elections.
For The World, I am Jacky Rowland in Belgrade.