Secretary General of the Arab League, Amr Moussa, again in Beirut.
And again in an attempt to find a political settlement on which all the Lebanese political parties agree.
But Moussa's visit to Beirut this time assumes great importance as he is returning from a meeting that was described as important with the Saudi King, Abdallah Bin Abd-al-Aziz ; and consequently, obviously just the return is expected to bring something new that contributes to paving the road for some solution, at least in form.
As for content and essence, well-informed sources harbor hopes that Moussa could convince the Lebanese factions to agree on a common ground that saves the country from entering into complications with bad repercussions.
Moussa relied, in his communications that he held with the political leaders, on two main points : first, the results of the meeting with the Saudi King, which sources expect would be followed by a direct Saudi intervention very soon on the treatment line ; and second, what he concluded in his last visit to Lebanon, i.e. the positive things he announced and did not specify, and which focus on the issue of partnership in government and what relates to the guarantee of the one-third.
I am looking forward to the coming meetings in ah the two coming days to resume--ah our discussions and negotiations.
I am still of the opinion that there is hope and there are points in which we can achieve progress from the starting point of--everyone's feeling of danger for Lebanon and the responsibility of everyone to protect Lebanon and to work from the starting point, for the goal, and according to the rule, no winner, no loser.
Moussa arrived in Beirut at a time when the opposition political leaders in Lebanon violated the media truce, as they raised the tone of their propositions and called for approving a new law for elections and holding early parliamentary elections through a transitional government, accusing the majority of dealing with the current crisis through arrogance and obstinacy.
For its part, the majority said this escalation with its sudden timing blocked the path of Moussa's initiative.