You want tight harmony singing ?
How about these guys ?
President Fidel Castro of Cuba and Hugo Chavez of Venezuela made beautiful music together, well, maybe not so beautiful music but they did break into song yesterday on Chavez's call in radio show.
Castro had more to sing about today, before returning home to Cuba.
He learned that Venezuela has agreed to provide Cuba with cheap oil.
As for Chavez, he is singing a different more aggressive tune these days.
As The World's Maria Soreas reports from Caracas, the Venezuelan leader is pushing parliament to pass an enabling law that would grant him special powers.
The enabling law will give President Chavez the right to legislate by decree, which means he could rush dozens of laws through parliament, not just economic and financial reforms, but also laws dealing with security and the creation of a new national police force.
Responding to his critics, Chavez recently defended his bid for power in a televized speech.
I do n't think the matter is exceptional.
The enabling law is a constitutional measure within a normal economic social and political situation.
What's one of its purposes ?
Well, to accelerate solutions to our many problems.
Although many members of Venezuela's National Assembly are grumbling about the enabling law, Haber Cuniket professor of political science at Desimum Boulevard University has no doubt they will give Chavez, what he wants.
Given that he has already controlled a majority of the National Assembly, it is very likely that the law will be passed and the general feeling is that there is a hurry in approving the legislation because the President seems to feel that he is running out of time with the popular support he has gotten ever since 1998.
Cuniket says, there has been a lot of public pressure on Chavez to live up to his many campaign promises, such as distributing land and wealth more equally among Venezuelans.
Deputies from the opposition are voicing their discontent.
Beneta Tikong belongs to a party called Democratic Action.
Tikong says, her party is radically opposed to giving Chavez the special powers.
She says, the constitution can grant leaders such concentrated authority but it's only supposed to be used in cases of emergency.
Granting Chavez special powers also concerns Professor Kenike, who says the President's deputies will contribute by giving him even more power.
What is worrisome is that the President will be with extreme powers and he will be almost like a king, able to decide whatever he wants.
He has been very hard against governors and mayors throughout the country and he seemed to prefer centralized kind of government than a decentralized one.
Centralizing power under Chavez seems risky to many.
The United States is already leery of the unpredictable leader, who is hosting Cuba's Fidel Castro and has visited Iraq's Saddam Hussein.
As President of OPEC, he has struck at oil consuming nations like the U.S.
At the last OPEC summit, Chavez called soaring prices for oil fair, giving nations like the U.S. charge for the products they sell.
Meanwhile, Venezuelans fear that once their Assembly grants Chavez special powers, the President will have one full year to pass nearly 40 new laws and then he can ask for an extension to continue ruling by decree.
For The World, I am Mario Soreas in Caracas.