As part of the plan of regional development in the Governorates, the road linking the area of Husseiniya in Karbala Governorate to the center of the city has been widened by two meters in order to absorb the congestion occurring on that road.
Its cost amounted to 3.5 billion Iraqi dinars.
In the regions, and accelerating reconstruction in the Karbala Governorate, work is currently being done in the area of Husseiniya to widen the road linking the area to the city center over a length of 12 kilometers at a cost of 3.5 billion Iraqi dinars.
The operation of widening it by two meters was carried out for the purpose of accommodating the resulting increase in the number of vehicles on that road, particularly on religious occasions.
The last of the projects which we are now working on implementing is the project of widening the Husseiniya-Karbala Road over the length of 12 kilometers from the center of the Husseiniya area to Karbala by broadening it by two meters in general.
Uh, the cost of the project is 3.5 billion, uh, by an Iraqi company and Iraqi engineers and of course Iraqi talent, and it will be completed and finished by 1231 of this year.
The road that goes through the center of the Husseiniya area was also included in the development and reconstruction plan, and this road is currently being paved over the length of two kilometers at a cost of 460 million Iraqi dinars.
Work on this project began early last October and it is hoped that this project will be completed by the end of the current year, As part of the projects for regional development and accelerating reconstruction of the Holy Karbala Governorate, with the engineering crews of the company, all entirely Iraqi crews, undertaking to pave that road.
Uh, and while the project began on the date of 1022006, it is expected that this project will be finished, if God Almighty wills, around 12312006.
The reconstruction activity that is being experienced by the Karbala Governorate and its districts and areas reflects the seriousness of the local government of the Governorate in positively interacting with the plan of regional development and accelerating reconstruction.