This is The World.
I am Lisa Mullins.
There was a rowdy session of parliament that Ehud Barak addressed today.
It was the first time Israeli lawmakers had assembled since the Palestinian uprising began a month ago.
Prime Minister Barak told the legislature that he believes peace in the Middle East is still possible, but that Israel does not have a partner prepared to make compromises.
A spirit of compromise was also hard to find in the parliament, as The World's Katy Clark reports.
Ehud Barak's optimism that peace can still be achieved comes as the Israeli Prime Minister struggles to keep his left center party in office.
Barak has been working without a parliamentary majority since July when right wing and religious parties deserted his coalition government in protest over the way he was handling peace negotiations.
Today, Israel's third largest party, the ultra-orthodox Shaff agreed to support Barak for the time being, but while that seems to have won the beleaguered Prime Minister a reprieve, it did n't stop other right wing legislators from shouting down Barak's address to parliament today, and the Israeli Prime Minister also had to contend with furious Arab-Israeli legislators.
Today, I have no confidence in Mr. Barak.
Law maker Acnit T.b.
We presented already a non-confidence motion, my party the Arab Movement for Change and it will be discussed during the next week.
Barak had hoped to open today's session by announcing the formation of a national emergency unity government with Ariel Sharon's opposition Likud Party, but negotiations this past weekend to form such a coalition were inconclusive.
That's just as well according to Shible Tel Hamie of the Brooklyn Institution.
Tel Hamie acknowledges that if Barak had succeeded in getting Sharon to join up in a new government, the Prime Minister would have a majority in parliament, but he would also be in a bind internationally because with sharon, who did not have a nice image internationally, who went alone in the Middle East, and clearly, the Palestinians would be less likely to cooperate with that government, so he faces a major tension between his peace agenda and his domestic agenda.
As if Barak needed any reminding of that, the chief Palestinian negotiator Saeb Eraket today criticized Barak for tailoring his speech to the Israeli right wing.
Arakat predicted that Barak's latest political maneuvering would have a negative effect on the peace process.
For The World, I am Katy Clark.