Israel is also confronting hostilities on its northern border, hostilities the Israeli government was hoping would end when it withdrew its troops from Southern Lebanon five months ago.
Hezbollah geurillas announced this week that they have captured an Israeli man and are holding him along with 3 Israeli soldiers they nabbed 9 days ago.
The Hezbollah group says that the man was spying for Israel's intelligence service.
The Israeli government insists that he is a private businessman.
The BBC's Andrew Harding is in the Lebanese capital of Beirut.
Andrew Harding how does this capture affect the talks in Egypt ?
Well, it certainly is not going to help matters, but ultimately, of course, the Hezbollah is deeply critical of the peace process.
They do not like the sort of deals that Arafat appears to be, at times, ready to make.
Though, I think that if they could stifle the entire peace process at the moment, then that is what they 'd like to do.
There are lot of claims and counter claims about this captured man and what he does.
What do we know for sure about him ?
It is very difficult to be sure at the moment.
Hezbollah is saying one thing, the Israelis are saying another and when we are talking about a possible member of the secret services of Mossad, it is very hard for any one but the Israelis to know for sure.
Clearly, this is a man who was travelling on some other passport somewhere in Europe, whether or not an Israeli citizen, we do n't know it for sure.
Certainly Hezbollah say he is.
He would appear to be back in Lebanon, under Hezbollah guard.
Beyond that, we have these two conflicting reports from Israel and Hezbollah.
I guess it's a question of trying to choose which is the more credible, and that's a very difficult call at the moment.
Well, whatever his identity and his aim, Hezbollah is using the information about him as a bargaining chip, it would seem.
Husain Nebrusi of the Hezbollah Information Bureau in Beirut had this to say this morning.
We will not tell anything about the conditions of these Israeli captured soldiers of the colonel unless we get something in return.
We are determined.
This is not a breach of the Geneva Convention.
I mean, I would be saying the Israeli prisoners, they were not allowed to even see the Red Cross as they did n't for three years.
We did n't even know the least information about them.
So, Andrew, when he says that they are looking to get something in return for information about these captured Israelis, what in particular do they want to say ?
What are they hoping to achieve ?
Specifically, Hezbollah want 19 prisoners that are currently being held in Israeli jails.
Many of them, as Israel admits, as bargaining chit in this ' Hit the Tag Hostage war '.
There are also a number of other men believed to be in Israel from Iran and also a lot of Palestinian detainees who may or may not come into the equation even when this negotiating process over the fate of these hostages gets off the ground.
And it really struggles to get off the ground so far because Hezbollah is taking such a tough line.
Andrew, can you tell us about the ties between the Hezbollah and the Palestinians, particularly in the recent uprising.
I mean those who have criticized the Israeli withdrawal for its troops from Southern Lebanon last spring have said that it showed that the armed uprisings have won the day and forced the Israeli pullout.
Now there have subsequently been accusations that the Lebanese Hezbollah has tried to influence the Palestinians toward armed revolt.
Is there any evidence of this ?
Well, the Hezbollah certainly would like to do that and they are, at the moment, extremely popular in the Palestinian territories because Palestinians see Hezbollah taking a tough line at a time when many of them are critical of the more compromising route that Arafat appears to be taking.
There have been traditional differences between Hezbollah and some of the more extreme groups inside the Palestinian areas, but at the moment, I think, the aim of Hezbollah and other groups is to get over those differences, unite and form a very strong overall group of extremist forces dedicated to destroying the peace process as it now stands.
The BBC's Andrew Harding speaking to us from Beirut, Lebanon.
Thank you.
Thank you.