This is The World, a co-production of the BBC World Service PRI and WGBH in Boston.
I am Lisa Mullins.
For the past 40 years Columbia has been engulfed in a civil war which has claimed 35,000 lives since 1990.
The government is pinning hopes of ending the conflict on what it calls Plan Colombia.
A seven and a half billion dollar package is designed to push the left wing guerillas towards a peace deal by stemming the lucrative drug trade that finances their movements.
As we 'll hear in a moment, the American role in Plan Colombia could be one of the initial foreign policy dilemmas to face the next U.S. President, but first we go to the Colombian city of Beranka Bremeha, where as The World's Steven Doddly reports, the killing and the suffering continue.
A woman bellows in pain at the death of her 16-year-old sister.
Her dizzying cries for answers to her sister's death, shake even the usually unflappable police investigators that are arriving at the funeral home.
Just an hour earlier, her sister was shot on the head by suspected left wing guerillas.
The motive is n't clear.
There are rumors she may have been doing favors for the rebel's enemies, the right wing paramilitaries.
She may simply have been dating one of them.
It's all speculation right now, but what's true is that it is easy to become a target in this city of 200,000 inhabitants.
Father Hose Figadua, who works for the archdiocese says over 400 people have been killed already this year in a battle between warring factions over the precious territory that surrounds Beranka Bremeha.
Around here there are oil, gold and nickel deposits.
It's also great land for raising cattle and agriculture, and that's why those who have dominated the area, the guerillas want to maintain control.
Columbia's largest oil refinery is here, to the west of the city.
There are also large tracks of coca fields, the raw material for cocaine.
The fight to control profits from the illegal coca trade as well as the illegal gasoline market has spilled onto Beranka Bremeha's streets.
In the city's commercial district, an employee at the Rositas Fabric and Clothing Store shouts out today's bargain prices of the Pa.
Rositas lies on one of the city's main thoroughfares.
In front of the store, street vendors hawk watches, jewelry and t-shirts.
In June, two suspected paramilitary gunmen entered this store, moved their way past the towels and sheets and up the marble staircase to the second floor before they reached their targets, two relatives of the store's owner.
After pumping several rounds into the two businessmen, witnesses say the men calmly walked out of the store and sped away on their motorcycle.
Speaking over the din of the refinery, Vopunsa Dunke, a representative of a local development agency here, says Beranka Bremeha's war has no boundaries.
These assassinations break all the rules.
They 've killed right here in one of the busiest areas, where there are lots of cars and people, and where there are plenty of police that should be easily be able to control this area.
Dunke and others suspected the authorities are selectively enforcing the law by ignoring the paramilitary's attacks in the center of town and instead are focussing mainly on the city's guerilla controlled territories.
On a side street in Beranka Bremeha's north west neighborhoods, police stop a pick-up and check the driver's identity as well as the contents of his cab.
This roadblock is part of a police operation to seek out urban rebels in this area notorious for its guerilla presence.
Many nearby buildings are decorated with rebel perfidy and murals, celebrating Latin American revolutionaries.
Just a few blocks away the former police station sits in rubble.
The police abandoned the station after repeated guerilla attacks.
At a soccer field, just 25 yards away from the roadblock, a police unit has gathered over 30 suspects to bring in for background checks.
Hydo Perez, who is in charge at this police investigation, says the neighborhood is dangerous because of the way the guerillas sometimes react to the police presence.
They think this is their territory.
When we arrive, they feel invaded and then indiscriminately shoot at us or set bombs and the people are afraid that they will get caught in the middle of a clash.
In the back room where the funeral followed, police investigators survey the corpse of the beautiful 16-year-old girl killed by suspected guerillas.
They turned and twisted her limp body to inspect the bullet wounds.
These men have seen all types of victims, students, housewives, taxi drivers and businessmen among others, but this one hits the police hard because of her age.
She is so young, one of them comments, too young to die in this country's unrelenting civil war.
For The World, I am Steven Dudley in Beranka Bremeha, Columbia.