Palestinian Chief Negotiator Saeb Erekat confirmed that Palestinians are fully ready to negotiate a peaceful settlement with Israel, and that is after Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert's announcement of his readiness to withdraw from most of the Palestinian territories in return for peace.
On his side, Nabil Abu Rudeina, Consultant to the Palestinian Presidency, said the task at this stage is the demand for serious negotiations to implement the Road Map and the Arab Peace Initiative which is based on the fourth of June borders of land for peace and foremost Jerusalem.
We demand serious negotiations in order to implement the Road Map and the Arab Peace Initiative.
Ah what is important to us is to see serious negotiations on the negotiation table on the basis of the fourth of June ah land for peace and, foremost Jerusalem.
Ah regarding the issue of refugees ah ah what came in the Road Map and in the Arab Peace Initiative is a fair and agreed upon solution, according to resolution one hundred ninety-four.
This is the official Palestinian position, and this is what we committed to, the Arab legitimacy and the international legitimacy.
Releasing Palestinian captives, stopping assassinations, and stopping incursions, ah is the only necessary climate for survival and for maintaining the truce that was agreed upon days ago in Gaza.
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert had offered his willingness to release Palestinian detainees and to release money due to the Palestinian Authority in return for releasing the Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit, who is detained by Palestinian groups, and in return for Palestinians giving up the right of return.
Olmert said Israel would withdraw from most of the Palestinian territories in return for peace.
<foreign lang="unknown"> <foreign>
If the Palestinians form a new government that commits to implementing the Road Map and release Gilad Shalit, I will offer Abbas an immediate meeting in order to have a real and open dialogue.
I realize the importance of releasing Palestinian detainees.
I promise that the Israeli government will be willing to release many Palestinians in return for Shalit returning home safe to his family.