This is the World I am Lisa Mullins.
Well we ca n't tell you who won Florida, but in a moment we will enter the musical question, who let the dogs out ?
First up we have the answer to our geo quiz today.
We are looking for a region of central Italy bordering the Adriatic Sea.
The area is mostly mountainous and includes Mt. Corno, the highest peak of the Apennines.
It also includes a lot of sheep, good clean-living, healthy sheep, and an Italian entrepreneur has an idea about how to make a little money of them.
The answer is Abruzzo.
Journalist Carlos Depalazai was in Rome, Italy and Carlo how does this fellow plan to profit from the sheep of the Abruzzo ?
He is taking advantage of two crazes that we are having in the Italy at the moment, one is internet, the other one is the awareness on food.
So this guy came up with the idea of having people adopting sheep by an internet.
So you can have access through your computer on your desk.
Go to the web site of these guys and you can have look at the face of sheep which are available to be adopted.
So what does it mean to adopt a sheep, to show up on your back step or do you, somehow keep track of its progress on the farm in Italy ?
You are not actually adopting the sheep in the sense that you can have it with you.
It looks like distant adoption, where you do n't actually have the child in your home.
You are just contributing with a certain amount of money and you are monitoring the growing up.
It works in the same way, so you have access on the web site of this little farm, in a little village of Abrutzi and you can choose among many, many sheeps and after contributing with a certain amount of money the sheep is actually yours.
All right, so the amount of money you have mentioned to us is about 160 US dollars and for that you get more than just a warm and fuzzy feeling.
You can also receive leggings that are made from wool of the sheep and even if you like some of the sheep dropping delivered to your door.
Yeah, I mean this is quite funny, but apart from all the details, which are sometimes even strange I think what is really important is that it is a sign of a new concern that is effecting Italian people.
I mean we are notoriously lover of good food.
We have a generous attitude towards food, and this is a new stuff.
The fact that you really care about a sheep in the way she is fed, in the way she is nurtured, in the way people are looking after it, because it's a way to ensure that you have something which is genuine on your table up the end.
Wait a minute, you said that on your table at the end.
Yeah, at the table if it becomes food for instance, which is an option.
You are adopting the sheep and whatever happens at the end it's your choice and among the option is you know food for your meal.
That kind of puts a whole new tone to this thing.
I mean usually when you think of this kind of adoption that means saving an animal not eventually eating it.
I mean this is an option which is available and I think it is a sort of provocation.
You know Italians now mainly live in metropolitan areas in big cities like Rome, Florence, Naples.
In the past, we were a population of shepherds or farmers.
We had completely different attitude towards nature.
It seems that we are losing something, and we need to reestablish a better relationship with nature and the simple fact that the Environment Minister in Italy supported the initiative and he himself adopted a sheep is significant.
He took advantage immediately of these ideas to build up a new awareness and a new attitude of Italians towards nature and farms.
Carlo De Blazia, journalist speaking to us from Rome.
Thank you very much Carlo.
Nice to talk to you.
Thank you.