Dozens of people were killed or injured yesterday in renewed fighting since Wednesday between the Islamic Courts and the Somali forces, near the town of Baidoa, the headquarters of the interim government's institutions.
This comes although the United Nations called on the concerned parties to stop the fighting immediately.
The International Security Council condemned yesterday the volatile situation in Somalia, where chaos prevails, and called for the resumption of peace negotiations between the two fighting parties.
Heavy artillery now controls the situation in the town of Baidoa and surrounding areas.
There are no winners or losers until now, and both sides are announcing the casualties they inflicted on the enemy front.
Military and media sources revealed that neighboring Ethiopia mobilized tanks toward the battlefields between the Islamic Courts, and government forces, where the two sides are exchanging gun and rocket fire in clashes that are starting to take the form of war.
The Islamic Courts announced that they will modify their military tactics and will push their ground forces to the front line for a sweeping attack against Ethiopian forces starting on Saturday, instead of long distance fighting with heavy weaponry which has been the technique used until now.
And while Addis Ababa denies its military support of government forces, the Islamic Courts announced that it launched its war against Ethiopian forces to curb their ambitions in Somalia and to stop their support of the interim government with weapons and soldiers.
And if the participation of Ethiopian tanks in the battles is confirmed, the dangers of the fighting will escalate.
In addition, it might draw the whole Horn of Africa into war, due to the historical dispute between Ethiopia and Eritrea.
The battles which were described as violent started on Tuesday night with the end of the grace period given by the Islamic Courts Council for the withdrawal of the Ethiopian forces from Somali territories, before they would face a war.
And this might have already started or is about to start.