He prolonged his visit by one day and broadened the scope of his meetings.
He also stayed his course by repeating the refrain of hope that he and his mission will achieve some success.
He insisted on pointing to the full half, and not the empty half, of the glass.
Arab League Secretary General Amr Moussa, who is apprehensive of the devil in the details, carried what he had in his bag and tirelessly made the rounds of those involved in the current crisis.
After his meeting with Lt. General Michel Aoun, he reiterated that it is the responsibility of the Lebanese before anyone else to search for the desired solution.
I think that here, even though there may be regional or international influences or other considerations, the solution must be Lebanese.
The responsibility is that of the Lebanese leaders, indeed of the Lebanese people, not to allow the collapse of Lebanon and the harm that is occurring to Lebanon.
Moussa, who revealed that he had, away from the limelight, a positive meeting with the Secretary General of Hezbollah, Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah, also paid a visit to the leader of the Lebanese Forces Dr. Samir Geagea and the Maronite Patriarch Cardinal Nasrallah Boutros Sfeir, after he had met earlier with Prime Minister Fouad Siniora and the leader of the Future Movement, MP Saad Hariri.
He confirmed that he was able to discuss details, and who knows what the details are !
This time, we got into the details, and the devil is in the details.
And then, there are difficulties that are becoming clearer and difficulties that are beginning to be solved.
And this requires us uh, uh, to concentrate our work.
MP Hariri praised the efforts of the Secretary General of the Arab League and his success in bringing the perspectives of the parties in the current crisis closer.
Whereas Dr. Geagea denied on his part that the parliamentary majority group is the one putting obstacles in the way of this initiative.
However, it is striking that the MP and former Minister Suleiman Franjieh, in parallel with the end of the 22nd day of the open sit-in in front of the government Serail building in downtown Beirut, launched a sharp attack on the other side, accusing it of blocking the Moussa initiative.
He revealed that the opposition will announce civil disobedience after the holidays and will close the roads leading to the airport and the harbor in order to achieve the demands put forth.