The talks which the Secretary General of the Arab League Amr Moussa is holding in Lebanon for the second consecutive day, to find a way out of the current political crisis, have made progress according to what Moussa himself announced this afternoon from the offices of the Prime Minister, after he met Prime Minister Fuad Siniora, in the presence of the Sudanese President's envoy Mustafa Osman Ismail.
We are now in the course of communicating, consulting, tracking and--agreeing on many issues relating to the situation here.
By God we have reached, ah, I mean, to a mood, ah, much better in--and we are talking with different parties.
It is not possible to achieve progress unless we reach with all parties, to, ah, a basis which all agree on, which has benefit and might have concession.
The important thing is that the basis and objective is the most famous Lebanese principle : no winner, no loser.
Moussa and Ismail's round of talks included since this morning the Maronite leader Patriarch Sfeir, who supported the Arab initiative.
It also included MP Michel Aoun who is one of the pillars of the opposition.
Moussa said that the latter showed great understanding towards ending the climate of tension and reaching an agreement on all different frameworks which protect Lebanon.
There are issues that require now, ah-considering they are the main issues--that we solve them, and there are other issues whose time and context will come, ah, this is not the context.
Moussa and his accompanying delegation also had consultations with former Lebanese President Amin Gemayel, who pointed out the economic, social and lifestyle results from all that is happening today, which are negative as a whole, if the situation is not rectified and work is not done to find appropriate solutions.
Moussa met also the head of the Democratic Gathering, MP Walid Jumblatt, the prominent personality in the parliamentary and government majority.
Moussa announced that his consultations will be repeated as well with the head of the government and the speaker of parliament before meeting President of the Republic Emile Lahoud tomorrow.