Nicolas Sarkozy, the right-wing Interior Minister who is a candidate for the presidential elections, has begun paving his way to the Elysee Palace.
The beginning was in the regions and among the classes that have been most harmed by his policies, the suburbs and their residents who descend from immigrants.
But the first policeman of France did not resort this time to his familiar vocabulary vis-a-vis the people of the suburbs.
Instead, he replaced it with the language of cooperation, fairness and the promise of tangible solutions.
Valet Shamy from Paris.
Monthsaway away from the French presidential elections, it seems that the Interior Minister has chosen the most difficult thing to begin his campaign with.
Nicolas Sarkozy welcomed to his ministry young people from the suburbs, a step that was not lacking in significance.
Equal opportunities, identity, work and women in the poor suburbs were all subjects that were discussed throughout an entire day.
Sarkozy appeared flexible this time without losing his toughness, stressing that France will not accept values that are in conflict with the values of the Republic.
I assure you that society can not give you anything if you do not decide, by yourselves, to improve your conditions.
Sarkozy's speech was welcomed by some and was condemned by some others.
We came to the ministry to cooperate and to make our suggestions heard, and of course, if they were to be adopted, that is our hope.
We are here for dialogue, but this did not happen.
The microphones were disconnected.
Long live democracy, the democracy that was able to coexist well with dictatorship in France.
Sarkozy had wished this day to be a civilian revolution under the slogan of What we say, we do, perhaps with this, he can repair his image with the young people of the suburbs, promising them serious follow-up on their issues.
Of course, the issue of immigration is a fundamental and sensitive issue in the presidential campaign of Nicolas Sarkozy, who had wished to nominate a minister in charge of this file and conclude an international convention on this subject.
Valet Shamy, Dubai Television, Paris.