If Saddam Hussein was America's public enemy number one in the early nineties he lost the dubious distinction to Slobodan Milosevic in the latter part of the decade.
The Yugoslav strongman started four Balkan wars and eventually provoked the United States to lead Nato into a successful bombing campaign against Serbia.
Milosevic got his this past fall losing elections in September and being ousted in October.
His Socialist Party will try and probably fail to retain power in Parliament when Serb voters go to the polls this saturday.
The BBC's Jacky Roland reports on the fading prospects of Slobodan Milosevic.
Surrounded by bodyguards Slobodan Milosevic arrives at a special meeting of his Socialist Party to discuss election tactics.
He suffered a humiliating defeat back in September and the opinion polls predict another trouncing on Saturday, but his supporters are trying to put on a brave face.
They voted overwhelmingly to keep him as party President.
I asked a senior party official Branislav Ivkovic why they were keeping a leader who was such an obvious vote loser.
Everybody asked me about President Milosevic.
Leave him alone.
It is true he is the President of Social Party, but Social Party of Serbia has 400,000 members.
Ordinary people, family people but everybody of you want to know about President Milosevic, and strangely enough the young people of Serbia do n't seem to care about their former President.
There is no talk of revenge among the drinkers at this bar in Belgrade.
They are just glad to see the back of him.
I am not interested about Slobodan Milosevic any more and I do n't really want to know what will happen to him.
We must go on.
Our people and our country want to forget that name and never speak it again any more.
The Socialist Party will be lucky to win more than a few seats in Parliament.
The Party has retreated into a parallel reality.
Its television commercials depict a world that barely exists any more.
Happy peasants in the mountains cut their grass using scythes.
The former ruling party seems to have lost touch completely with ordinary voters.
The man who used to be Information Minister Goran Matic says it is only a matter of time before they will be back in power.
I am convinced that in two or three years time we will win elections and be back in government again, not because I want to be in power or a minister but because it's in the interest of the citizens of our country.
And it is clear that Milosevic and his wife have not given up their ambitions.
He recently appeared on Serbian television in a two-hour interview, while she has taken up her seat in the Federal Parliament.
The former Yugoslav President Zoran Lilic has recently left the Socialist Party.
He warns that it is too early to write off Milosevic.
You can be sure he is still pulling all his political strings.
He has only one aim, to return to the political scene and anyone who thinks otherwise is underestimating him.
Slobodan Milosevic still wins applause from the party faithful, but the international community says there is only one place for him, at the War Crimes Tribunal in The Hague.
Whether he 'll end up there is another matter.
The new leaders of Serbia shy away from questions about extraditing the former President.
They say the best place for him to stand trial would be before his own people.
For The World, I am Jacky Roland in Belgrade.