So, dear viewers, this is the press conference of Hajj Hussein Al-Khalil, political aide to Hezbollah's Secretary General Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah.
This conference is an attempt to clarify.
Mr. Hussein Al-Khalil also referred to the statement issued yesterday by the Future Movement in response to what Mr. Hajj Hussein Al-Khalil said in an interview with Al-Manar Television, in which he clarified that there were contacts that took place between, uh, the Future Movement, and specifically from Saad Hariri to Hezbollah's Secretary General through Hajj Hussein Al-Khalil.
In the context of his announcement there are two important points :
The first point relates to the need to disarm the resistance, or an honor pact or a word of honor from Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah that the resistance will be disarmed, and talking about the weapons of the resistance, specifically at the time of the Israeli aggression against, uh, Lebanon.
He explicitly clarified, and also mentioned names, that there were direct mediations taking place between member of Parliament Saad Hariri and Hajj Hussein Al-Khalil.
And he mentioned Hajj Akram Saad as a mediator.
He also mentioned Mr. Wissam Al-Hassan as a mediator from the Future Movement.
He also discussed what was happening with the French proposal to stop the Israeli aggression, that it will proceed or a resolution will be issued by the Security Council under Chapter Seven, and how they mostly rejected this.
The outcome at the end of this press conference is the advice of Hajj Hussein Al-Khalil, the political aide to the Secretary General, that they should not play the role of disguising the facts.
And these words are addressed to the Future Movement because if they were to play that role, there would be a successive revealing of a set of letters and documents that condem the Future Movement.
The questions that were posed by the journalists dealt with the context of : to what extent can the response and the rebuttal to the response end ?
Hajj Hussein Al-Khalil answered that this talk is completely different, as are talks of a transitional government, talk about the government and about unity and about sitting together one more time.
And this was a question for Al-Alam channel about how there could be talk about another party in this way, as well as sitting with that party ?
He said : This is a different matter.
But now he is explaining the contents of a statement made yesterday by the Future Movement following up on his statements to Al-Manar Television.