And not far from Lebanon, a source at the Syrian interior ministry said that the military commander of the Tawhid Wal Jihad Organization in Syria blew himself up after being chased by the security forces at the Jdeidet Yabus border crossing.
The source said that the man, called Omar Abdullah, also known as Omar Hamra, was carrying nine, uh, forged identity documents.
The statement of the Syrian interior ministry said that Omar Abdullah, 28 years old, was first to open fire with a pistol in his possession, on security men who were suspicious of his identity.
The young man, who leads the armed wing of the Tawhid Wal Jihad Organization, tried to escape but the security forces surrounded him, and he had no alternative, either to surrender or to commit suicide, so he chose the latter by detonating an explosive belt he had tied around his waist.
In addition to the terrorist, as the authorities call him, two Syrian security men were injured.
These incidents took place on the Syrian side of the border with Lebanon at the Jdeidet Yabus crossing point, at a distance of a few kilometers from the Masnaa post on the other side of the border.
The official version says that Omar Abdullah, also known as Omar Hamra, was carrying nine different, forged identity documents.
It is not known whether he succeeded in moving around using them in the past or if this was the first time he tried this dangerous journey.
The man was wanted by the Syrian Security Services because of his connection with an organization they describe as extremist, in reference to the Tawhid Wal Jihad which the authorities consider a twin of the Jund Al-Shaab Organization.
This organization, which was founded in Afghanistan by Islamists from Syria, Palestine and Jordan, is blamed for a number of incidents that have taken place in the country in the past two years.
An attempt to attack the American Embassy last September was foiled by the Security Services and led to the death of five people, including four of the attackers.
The Security Services also carried out what they call preemptive attacks in each of the following : Daff Al-Shawk in the capital, in Aleppo, and Khasham in the Al-Hasakah Governorate, in the north of the country.
They also clashed extensively with gunmen in Hama, the city that is famous for the killing of thousands of its people in 1982, when the authorities were engaged in quelling the Islamist movement there.