This is The World.
I am Tony Kahn.
Gao Xingjian arrived in Stockholm this week and when he leaves the Chinese born writer will have something extra in his suitcase, the Nobel Prize for Literature.
Today Gao, who now lives in France, gave the traditional Nobel lecture as part of the festivities leading up to Sunday's ceremony, and on the same day he collects the prize.
Gao's 1989 novel ` Soul Mountain ' will be published for the first time in America.
If you want to know what Gao Xingjian is all about, as a thinker and as an artist, our international book critic Christopher Meryl says Gao's masterpiece is an ideal starting point.
His politics are embedded in his writing and his writing is first and foremost a celebration of freedom.
This novel ` soul mountain ', which is just being released in the United States this week is in every possible way a celebration of what freedom means.
It's a large novel, full of all kinds of ideas and incidents and stories and tales and a polyphony of voices.
It is, if you like, the whole world wrapped up in 500 pages.
It is the world at its most carnival-like, and yet it is virtually impossible, is n't it, for a Chinese artist to do something or to make a statement without its having some kind of either political effect or be political in origin.
I mean this man took the trip on which the novel was based for political reasons, did he not ?
Certainly.
He is born in 1940.
He is a product of the Cultural Revolution.
In fact he had to burn up an entire suitcase full of hundreds of poems and plays and stories at the start of the Cultural Revolution in fear of going to prison, and then in 1983 after being diagnosed with lung cancer, which had killed his father three years earlier and being convinced that he himself was going to die, he gets a kind of reprieve.
He gets a second chest X-ray, discovers that he does n't have lung cancer, recognizes that by virtue of the kinds of things that he is writing, his openness to Western literary ideas, that he is in political trouble again, and so he sets out on an extraordinary odyssey of some 15,000 kilometers, mostly on foot, which he takes through southwestern China.
He had survived, if you will, a death sentence, and now in that new freedom of the life in front of him, he takes to the road in the tradition of old Chinese poets and records what he sees, what he hears, the stories that he is told.
The book is filled with marvelous descriptions of the gorges through which he walks, the mountains that he climbs, indeed the book is called Soul Mountain, the mountain on which he hopes in some way or another to get in touch with his soul, his individual soul, as opposed to that mass kind of soul being enforced upon him by the Communist Chinese authorities, the social realism that the cadres would have him write in.
Not only can this fellow write, he can paint too, ca n't he ?
He is best known among his neighbors in Paris as a painter.
He has had more than 30 one-man shows and his paintings are quite delicately done and there he is also very well known as a playwright.
I think he has published about 18 plays now and he writes his plays in French.
Just one last thing quoting him and I wonder if you could respond to this, Christopher, he said at the very beginning of his wonderful speech to the Nobel Prize Committee, he said, `` I do not wish to waste this talk on literature by saying too much about politics and history, What I want to do is to use this opportunity to speak as one writer in the voice of an individual. ''
Is that true basically not only for him that day, today, but of all of his work ?
Well, the work that we have so far in English translation suggests that, and indeed this novel, which is a celebration as well of the self of the individual, goes so far as to even divide up to the self.
Characters proliferate out of the imagination of the narrator so that at a certain point, you have a new he, you have a new she, you have a you, and each one of these characters tells stories, each story of which is designed to give you a deeper sense of the richness and the complexity of life in China.
Christopher Meryl is Director of the International Writing Program at the University of Iowa and our international book citric.
Thanks, Christopher.
Thank you.