Want another advantage of hydrogen over oil ?
Well, when is the last time you heard of a hydrogen spill threatening a sensitive ecosystem ?
Today more than a week after a tanker spilled a 180 thousand gallons of oil near the Galapagos Islands, experts are warning that it could take several days to drag the ship away, and the tanker's captain now faces charges that could land him up to 5 years in prison.
The BBC's Tim Hersh reports from one of the Ecuadorian Islands.
The captain of the Jessica Tokinio Arivalo is being held at the Port Authority building on San Kristobal which looks directly out to the stricken tanker still stranded on a reef after running aground nine days ago.
Mr. Arivala said he had mistaken a channel marker at the entrance to the harbor for a lighthouse.
He spoke of his horror as the vessel ran aground and he realized his mistake.
In that moment I felt like it was right up to me to die.
I know what's happening now, but that time I did n't know.
I had nine nights, nine days, not eating nor sleeping.
I feel sick because I do n't feel guilty for that.
Formal proceedings are now underway to prosecute Mr. Arivalo and the owners of the Jessica.
An official from the Ecuadorian prosecuting authorities Alfrado Alvea arrived on the island to announce the start of legal action.
The owners of the boat, the captain, the crew, they will send you, all the persons who 've made that damage, up to five years to the jail and pay all the damage they have cost.
Out in the harbor preparations are being made to attach cables to the tanker so that it can be floated and towed out to sea, where it's expected to be sunk.
Edwin Stanton of the United States Coastguard says the rough sea conditions have helped to reduce the environmental damage from the oil spill.
Paradoxically, the surf that's washing over the boat and causing damage to the vessel has been mixing the diesel with the heavy oil and allowing both to evaporate and mix into the water very well, so Mother Nature give us and Mother Nature take it away.
No major oil concentrations have been sighted recently more than 6 miles northwest of the source of the vessel, so much of it is naturally dissipating and evaporating.
We are very lucky in that, but conservation scientists are still very concerned about small amounts of oil which have washed up on beaches up to 80 kilometers away, possibly threatening creatures, including Galapagos ' sea turtles.
Ecological disaster may have been averted, but the wildlife is not completely safe yet.
The BBC's Tim Hersh reporting from the Galapagos Island of San Kristobal.