This is The World, I am Lisa Mullins.
History was made in mexico today when Vicente Fox was sworn in as President.
This was no ordinary inauguration.
It marked the first peaceful transfer of power to the opposition in Mexico's history.
Few Mexicans can remember when their President was not a member of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, whose 71 years in power ended this afternoon.
Fox, a conservative, leads the National Action Party.
The World's Frank Contraris is in Mexico City.
Frank, the swearing in ceremony is now over.
What did President Fox have to say ?
President Vicente Fox touched on the biggest, most troubling issues facing Mexicans today.
He spoke about what he can do to solve the poverty that has driven so many hundreds of thousands of people north, into the United States seeking work.
He wants to try to find a way to keep them home, and one of the other things that he touched on, Lisa, he says that Mexico never again will return to repressive means to try to control the people.
My government will not tolerate that these methods of the past be used again.
We will not use the security forces of our country to silence critics or neutralize opponents.
Repression will never again be a way to resolve political disputes.
And one of the other main subjects he touched on today, Lisa, was the conflicted southern state of Chiapas.
Fox says that his first presidential act will be to send up a proposal to the congress to immediately begin to bring a process of peace back into Chiapas State and that's something that people really did n't expect to happen so quickly here.
All of these issues actually are issues that the United States has been watching very carefully, and US Secretary of State Madeleine Albright is there in mexico city for the inaugural.
She is meeting with Mexico's new Foreign Minister, who is the writer and academic Jorge Castaneda.
He, in fact, lived in New York for a number of years.
What has the new President Fox said so far about relations with the United States ?
Fox says that Mexico's relations with the US are strong, but he sees opportunities.
He still is convinced that he can talk to the United States government into opening up its borders and eventually letting in more Mexican's under the Free Trade Agreement.
More Mexicans, who would come in to the country legally.
Fox believes that in 20 or 30 years the United States, Canada and all of Latin America should be one unified market, much in a way that the European Community is unified, and so Fox is going to use his marketing sensibility to try to convince the American people that this is the way to go.
Remember, Fox comes from a strong marketing background.
He was the executive of Coca-Cola from Mexico, so he understands how these things work.
I wonder if you can tell us a little bit about something that Cuban President Fidel Castro, who is also there today, said earlier in the week.
He said that the previous President Ernesto Zedillo was too much of a servant to the United States.
Is that issue something that Fox is likely to pay attention to ?
Is that kind of a warning for Fox at all ?
That's definitely a message to Vicente Fox from Fidel Castro and I am sure that other Latin American presidents feel the same way, but Fox really has already shown very early on that he is going to try to be an unusual kind of leader with the United States, he is not going to kowtow to Washington.
In fact, just weeks after he was elected he showed Washington that he has his own initiatives and some of them might even frighten leaders in our national capital there, so I think you can expect Fox to continue the economic policies that Mexico has been criticized for, that is following the economic lead of the United States, but at the same time he will come up with concrete policies for dealing with immigrants ' rights and other such matters that we have never really seen before.
The World's Frank Contraris in Mexico City.
Frank Contraris, thank you again.
Thank you, Lisa.