And so the Supreme Court is about to decide a case that will probably determine who becomes the next President.
If this strikes you as an extraordinary turn of events, well it strikes many overseas as nearly unbelievable.
In the democracies of Europe, legal experts are saying it ca n't happen here.
Philippe Shatiney is an editor of the French news weekly, Mahiyan.
Philippe, could it happen anywhere else.
Oh, I really think not.
First of all, because there are so few countries which are organized on the American model with, the powers of the state.
So yes I think there is a lot of bemusement here in Europe about the difficulties that the Americans are having in choosing a President.
I think there is also a lot of amusement though, there is a lot of finger pointing.
It's always funny for the small guys to laugh when the giant trips over his feet.
Well, let's look at the United States Supreme Court itself and our justice system, now is there an institution that is independent of politics that serves anything like the function that the US Supreme Court serves ?
Well, yes mostly European judicial systems do have a form of the Supreme Court.
However, for example, in France the strict machinery of justice is separated from the constitutional court, which is a separate body, but yes there also the members are appointed by the President and therefore there also, the members of the Coseque Constitutionalle are somewhat open to criticism that the decisions are often more motivated by politics than they are by the law.
However, I think that the image that we Europeans had, of the American system and especially of the US Supreme Court, was that those justices were above politics and, I think, that is also one of the bad surprises that this election is reserving to us Europeans is that finally your system is not as perfect as we were led to believe.
I wonder in terms of this particular case, now this is certainly an extreme case in the United States with an unfathomably close election, How have other democracies dealt with effective ties, I mean could there for instance be one of elections, you know where our type has gone to the courts, What happens to yours ?
Well, there have been cases in most recent elections in France where the Coseque Constitutionalle having been apprised of doubtful procedures or doubtful ways of counting the votes, have decided either to the election and have it done over again or to in fact change the winner.
However, our electoral system is so much more simple in the sense that we have separate elections for the Presidency, for Parliament, for our mayors and therefore usually most French voters are faced with the difficulty of choosing a little paper ballotenne with a name on it and putting that in an envelop and then put that in the urn, so there is a much less chance of error, at least, in our French system.
Hey, it is interesting there also, when we look at the idea of checks and balances in a non-partisan judiciary, in terms of the checks and balances, that actually originated in France.
Yes indeed, it was a political idea put forward in the writings of the and another very famous french political observer Alexis de Tocqueville who visited America and wrote an amazingly good book about American democracy, said exactly that, that America seemed to him to be the single country in the world who has managed to apply the separation of powers between the judiciary, the executive, and the legislative in a better way than any other country.
So it's quite surprising for us Europeans to see that the Supreme Court would be involved, not really it seems to us in interpreting the law of the land or the constitution of the United States, but more in deciding the merits of a terribly political case.
Philippe Shatiney, an editor of the French news weekly ' Mahiyan '.
Nice to speak with you Philippe.
Thank you.