The Al-Omar company set up an automatic brick production factory in Suq Al-Shuyukh county.
The production capacity through this factory will be 160,000 bricks every ten hours, covering the actual needs of Dhi Qar Province and neighboring provinces.
Due to the stable security conditions seen in the province of Dhi Qar, and the adoption of the investment law, investors were encouraged to establish important projects.
Al-Omar company built an automatic brick production factory in the county of Suq Al-Shuyukh, with a production capacity reaching 160,000 bricks every ten hours, in line with the widespread construction activity in the province and neighboring provinces.
The Al-Omar automatic brick production factory was established on an area of 20 hectares to cover the actual requirements of Dhi Qar Province and neighboring provinces such as Basra, Samawa, Karbala, and Najaf.
The production capacity of the factory is 160,000 bricks in ten hours according to the system operating in the factory at the moment.
There are promotional prices for Dhi Qar Province, ah, to improve the status of contruction in the province.
The factory operates with one production line only at the moment and with a very modern working method, where production is compliant with international standards, subject to measurements and quality control, and free of environmental pollutants, since it works on the modern vertical shaft brick kiln system.
Ah, our factory produces 16 molds a minute, and each mold contains 23 bricks, and God willing that we should continue, we will increase the production capacity so that we to serve this dear country.
Despite the recent construction of the factory, the fine quality of the bricks makes official departments and houses register a clear demand, because the factory is close to working areas, and therefore does not carry any additional costs.
This factory was constructed recently and the interest in it was continuous because, ah, the product coming out of the factory is according to the required specifications.
Such projects benefit the citizens, since they aim to provide work opportunities and eliminate unemployment.
Encouraging the establishment of industrial, economic and development projects, through facilitating the task of their owners, by providing them with all the requirements, contributes to the advancement of our national economy and building the new Iraq.
Irfan Ali, Al-Iraqiya, Suq Al-Shuyukh.