Let's take another look at what comments other media have made on this session of six party talks.
South Korea's Kyung Hyang Daily News says in an article that North Korea is basically satisfied with the US attitude, or else it would have surely turned back again and left the negotiation table of the six party talks.
Facts show that as long as the two sides are willing to talk, the issues will not be pigeonholed.
The New York Times in the US says in an article that the most urgent task is to disarm North Korea of its nuclear weapons.
However, with North Korea's tough position on the financial sanctions, it is very hard for the US to discuss other issues with North Korea.
This is the challenge that the US delegation is facing.
Hong Kong-based Wen Wei Po says in an article that one of key obstacles to the progress of the six-party talks this time is precisely the issue of financial sanctions against North Korea.
But the US has still not made any concession on that.
Japan's Asahi Shimbun says in an article that the second-phase meeting of the fifth round of six-party talks has entered the stage of substantive discussion and that the entire talk centering around China's proposal is gradually coming to an end.
Hill said today that the US and North Korea have already touched upon many substantive issues.
Kim Kye-gwan said yesterday that if the US attempts to use both hard and soft tactics such as coupling dialogue with pressure and carrots with sticks in negotiations, North Korea will surely counteract with dialogue and a shield.
But the trend of the talks has been positive.
A Xinhua News Agency article said that the talks will enter the stage of documenting the progress in written form.
Hill noted that it was really not an easy job to resume the six-party talks.
He did not want to predict whether the talks would be successful, saying that the US still thinks that the financial sanctions against North Korea should be separated from the issue of a nuclear-free Korean Peninsula.