It has been two weeks since Vojislav Kostunica became Yugoslavia's President and today he moved closer to consolidating his rule outside the orbit of Slobodan Milosevic.
The Montenagrian Socialist Peoples ' Party, which had supported Milosevic, announced that it will consider joining Kostunica's new government.
That tentative embrace brings Kostunica closer to forming a new cabinet.
He is trying to ride the wave of anger against the former leadership as he builds his power base, but as The World's Nenad Sebek reports, it is not going to be easy.
The rallying cry for anti-Milosevic protestors during last month's election campaign was this song.
The lyrics, in English, are '' Kostunica, save Serbia from the mad house. ''
After years of bickering Serbia's 17 opposition parties finally agreed to select one candidate to run against Slobodan Milosevic.
They wanted someone who is untainted by deals with the Milosevic regime, someone, who had solid moderate nationalist credentials.
Vojislav Kostunica, a 56-year-old constitutional lawyer fit the bill.
Back then Kostunica told this reporter, he identified with the common people because he was one himself.
I have been living this sort of life to understand them and their suffering.
That respect, I really think that I may speak in their name.
In the modest apartment, on this sleepy street in downtown Belgrade, Vojislav Kostunica lives with his wife, two cats, and a dog.
Across the roads of the building Kostunica's neighbor Zabin Vradonit sits in a cafe, where he favorably judges his new President.
Vradonit says that Kostunica passes here everyday, says ` hello ' to everyone in the cafe, sometimes stops and chats with them.
He is a real gentleman.
It seems as if most folks here in the neighborhood like Vojislav Kostunica.
Nened Shrovita, who runs a sportswear shop just down the road, says Kostunica is a normal ordinary man.
He is close to the people, understands them.
He says he has no intention of moving to one of Milosevic's presidential residences and intends to lead as normal a life as is possible for a head of state.
Zagurka Gulobowich, who worked with Kostunica for 20 years at the Institute for Philosophy and Social Theory in Belgrade, takes him at his word.
He is very modest and I am quite sure that he will fight very strongly against the corruption, and everything, which characterize the ruling party and Slobodan Milosevic, and that includes Milosevic's extreme Serb nationalism, which he used to justify wars with Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Kosovo.
Kostunica, says Gulobowich, is different.
He has never been a part of that aggressive-exclusive nationalism, which provokes hatred and xenophobia.
He is not nationalist in terms of ideology, but in terms of feeling.
He likes his nation and he tries to fight for the interest of his nation, but early in the Bosnian war, Kostunica did go to the Bosnian-Serb stronghold of Parle and met several times with Vladaven Karadzic, who was later indicted for war crimes.
Yes, but he never supported Karadzic's bombing of Sarajevo, for instance.
Bill Monroe, deputy leader of Kostunica's political party, says Kostunica tried to dissuade Karadzic from ethnic cleansing.
Yes, he was always in favor of negotiating, of stopping the violence.
He never sided with those extreme and deplorable things that were done by some of the Bosnian Serbs.
To rebuild Yugoslavia, Kostunica will need the help of the United States in securing international loans.
That could require some skill, political tap dancing.
Kostunica has criticized the present American leadership, for among other things, leading the Nato air strikes against his country last year, but last week when he received the US Special Envoy to the Balkans, Kostunica made a favorable impression while lots of peddling his grievances with Washington.
Bulatovic says Kostunica was able to pull off the balancing act because he is not really anti-American.
One should distinguish between his attitude towards present or rather outgoing American administration meaning Clinton, Madeleine Albright, Holbrooke.
He is highly critical of them and their attitude, but he always put forward reasons for his attitude.
So far, says Belgrade journalist Dragoli Bazarcowich, Kostunica is off to a good start.
He has n't made a single mistake so far.
Okay, when he met President Clinton's special emissary O'Brian the buttons on his shirt were not done properly.
That's the only thing I have noticed so far.
The one thing he badly needs to watch out for right now, is the ambitious in the ranks of his own Democratic Alliance.
If he does n't keep them in check, his clean reputation could be quickly tarnished, but as for now the honeymoon is still on.
This week Kostunica's main task is try and consolidate power by forming the new government.
Today's negotiations with parliamentary parties have brought him a step closer but not yet there.
Cleaning up the mess of the 13 years of Milosevic's dictatorship is a gargantuan task, which is just beginning, not only for Vojislav Kostunica but the whole country.
For The World, this is Nenad Shebek in Belgrade.