This is The World.
I am Lisa Mullins.
For 16 weeks Palestinians and Israelis have been dying in clashes on the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
Whatever trust once existed between the two sides has just about completely vanished, and that's why an action that Israel took today could have more significance than is immediately apparent.
Israeli forces dismantled several checkpoints on the main north-south road in Gaza.
In spite of Israel's efforts to bring about a resumption of full security cooperation with the Palestinians, Ehud Barak has been going the extra mile to make peace.
The Prime Minister's political survival may depend on it.
He faces the voters in 3 weeks and as The World's Richard Myron reports, Barak is way behind.
Ariel Sharon, a man once reviled by the Israeli political establishment is now attracting popular support throughout the country.
Supporters call him by his nickname ` Ari ' during a visit to this Jerusalem market and hailed him as the king of Israel.
They shout, `` Only Sharon can bring peace. ''
The 72-year-old leader of the right wing Likud Party is expected to trounce Ehud Barak in the upcoming election for Prime Minister.
Barak's Foreign Minister Sloma Ben-Ami was in Paris today in an effort to drum up support for a peace deal and increase the left wing leader's chances in the election.
Before rushing back for fresh talks with Palestinian negotiators this evening, Ben-Ami acknowledged that an agreement probably would n't happen before the end of President Clinton's term later this month and Sharon supporters are castigating Barak for bringing chaos in place of the peace deal he promised.
A campaign message for Sharon says, `` Disappointed with Barak, Barak promised, Barak disappointed, Barak must be replaced ''.
Mey Shitreet, Sharon's campaign manager says only his candidate can bring real peace between Israel and the Palestinians.
The Palestinians are shooting our citizens in our capital after they sign a peace agreement with us.
In this situation Sharon as a Prime Minister will have the ability to calm down the situation and give us the possibility at first, to check again with the Palestinians, do they mean peace ?
It is inconceivable to think that in the same time that the Palestinians go shooting us, we are talking to them about peace.
Sharon has told reporters that he will not honor any deal made before the election if he wins, and declared that the Oslo Accord is an agreement that no longer exists, giving the reason for fighting that has claimed more than 360 lives.
In an interview today with an Arabic language paper in Israel Sharon has been detailing how he 'd deal with the Palestinians.
Sharon says he envisions a series of phased agreements on issues like the status of Jerusalem and Palestinian refugees ' right to return, but he says that progress would depend upon what he calls ` the Palestinian's behavior '.
Prime Minister Ehud Barak says the right wing plans are unrealistic and will only lead to conflict.
These are difficult problems and it is hard to solve them.
The difference between Ariel Sharon and us is that we are dealing with them.
When Ariel Sharon speaks about his version of peace, I say to you and to the general public, ask yourselves if this so-called peace has a partner on the other side, because if not, this is just a code word for war.
Barak's campaign has been presenting Sharon as a danger to the country's security.
Television ads have portrayed Sharon as a dangerous extremist.
Barak's campaign has stressed the right wing leader's role as Minister of Defense during Israel's disastrous war in Lebanon in the 1980s.
Sharon though, has been presenting himself as a moderate and the unifier for the Israeli people.
Immediately after the elections I am going to call for a national unity government.
So, I think, even that should bring them to behave a little bit nicer, and the one here that have broken all his pledges, I am sorry to say that it's only Mr. Barak.
According to a opinion poll most Israelis too blame their current Prime Minister for the ongoing crisis with the Palestinians.
Some left-wingers in Israel are now quietly suggesting that it may be better for Barak to step down before the election and allow the veteran Shimon Peres to stand in his place against Sharon, but in the absence of the peace agreement, it may be difficult for any left winger to win over an increasingly skeptical Israeli public.
For The World this is Richard Myron in Tel Aviv.