With this month's ouster of strongman Slobodan Milosevic, Yugoslavia is rapidly joining the international community.
Today, the country was admitted into an international Balkan development program.
Belgrade now hopes to join the United Nations, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.
At home, President Vojislav Kostunica says that he intends to promote democracy and free speech, but Kostunica just might have second thoughts, once a theater group that roasted his predecessor over the coals starts turning him on a spit.
The World's Nened Chebeck reports from the Yugoslav capital.
These days at almost every street corner in central Belgrade, there is a stall selling compact discs with protest songs against the former regime, and the most popular tune blaring out of the speakers goes like this, `` attention, attention, last train for Serbia via day stop Kosovo and The Hague is departing with a ten hour delay.
It's the latest hit by the satirical theater called `` Index ''.
They started off 20 years ago in a local radio station and became an enormous success on stage and not just here in Serbia.
They toured the world and performed wherever there is an emigrant community from the former Yugoslavia scattered by the wars here, from Australia to New York where Index will be returning in late November.
This song is from their latest play, The Last Train for Serbia, which was recorded on the day protestors stormed the federal parliament in Belgrade and the main television stations.
The song speaks of panic in the household of Slobodan Milosevic.
Even before the former President conceded defeat, the Index Theater performed live on an improvised stage outside the parliament, in front of a crowd of some 300,000 people.
Actor Drugewbo Unitich tells how the show began.
The first thing that I told them was please let us close our eyes and just listen.
When they did that and I saw them and I told them in a voice of Milosevic, `` Ladies and gentleman, I am definitely finished. ''
Only 3 or 4 hours after that he appeared on television and said something very similar to that.
Yubitrich is one of Belgrade's most popular actors and he owes it to his skilful portrayal of Slobodan Milosevic.
Getting into Milosevic's shoes even on stage, was quite a temptation says Yubitrich.
I always felt when I enter his person, Okay, that I can do whatever I want and I always molested our fellow players you know.
So being Milosevic is something which I can compare to taking a dangerous drug.
But with Milosevic out of the way, what next for Serbia's most popular satirical group ?
Writer Vojislav Jonetic says he is confident the new Yugoslav government will provide plenty of fresh material.
We will have plenty of politicians, which we can play.
We will have plenty of idiotic situations in Serbian politics.
Political satirical theater is something which you can apply best to the societies, which are in some kind of crisis.
We are still in crisis and we will be I think for a while, but the current crisis Jonetic hopes will at least be one where government critics will not be branded as traitors and be banned from public performances.
Index Theater is planning a huge comeback now with a series of shows in Belgrade, but even though Milosevic is under de facto house arrest in Belgrade, he is very much present on the repertoire of political humors, says his impersonator, Dragewbo Yubitrich.
I would like to share one joke with the listeners of The World.
It's the year of 2004.
In Serbia it is 57th round of elections from September 2000 and Slobodan Milosevic appears on national tv and says, `` I want to greet you as your new President, my name is Vojislav Kostunica ''.
Yubitrich says, he has already set his sights on the new Yugoslav President, Kostunica and will most likely be impersonating him in the future.
He is not as easy to make fun of yet Yubitritch says, unlike Milosevic, but that does n't mean he will escape the scrutiny and sharp wits of Index Theater.
For The World, this is Nenad Chebeck in Belgrade.