Iraqi-Iranian relations have never in the past reached a degree of complete stability, and perhaps this has been caused by many geographic, political and religious factors.
For since the founding of the modern Iraqi State in the early '20s, the border problems between them were one of the elements of tension and instability.
The files of the Iraqi and Iranian foreign ministries contain many documents that talk about border violations here and there.
The state of instability persisted until the mid-'60s when the Iraqi President Abdul Salam Aref evicted the Iranian ambassador and accused the government of the Shah of interference in internal Iraqi affairs.
Because of the denominational convergence between the Shiites of Iraq and Iran, the controversy over the legitimacy of the religious authority between Arab and non-Arab authorities came to the surface, which is something with which political elements got involved and contributed to inflaming it.
The Iranian Revolution in the late '70s and the return of Ayatollah Khomeini to Tehran added more tension between the two countries, particularly with the announcement by Khomeini of his intention to export the revolution to the countries of the region.
In 1980, the Iraq-Iran war, which lasted eight years, broke out.
Close to a million people were killed in it.
During the war, Iraq embraced the Iranian opposition groups, the Mujahideen e-Khalq, whereas Iran embraced Iraqi opposition groups.
The direct war ended, but the war by proxy continued via opposition groups in both countries.
The war of 1991 came to bring relations between them to their lowest ebb, with Baghdad accusing Tehran of supporting a budding revolution in southern Iraq, after the cessation of coalition military operations in the aftermath of the invasion of Kuwait.
In the late '90s, both Baghdad and Tehran resumed diplomatic relations and the two sides exchanged prisoners from the eight-year war, but this did not stop them from using elements from the opposition.
The American-British war against Iraq came in 2003 to topple the Iraqi regime, with the objective of laying the foundations of democracy in the country, according to the US administration.
Diplomatic relations between Tehran and Baghdad resumed, especially since the majority of the Iraqi leadership had been using Iran as a base for their political activities.
The bloody events succeeded one another, putting the American project near collapse in Iraq, and the American accusations have resumed against Tehran for interfering in Iraq through armed militias.
Diyar Al-Omari, Al-Arabiyah.