Last year, a Beijing company was found guilty of buying and selling on speculation because it sold land on the moon.
This year, ah, they also planned to sell World Cup air, but eh, did not receive a business permit.
Because of this, eh, they recently launched a lawsuit against the industry and commerce department.
The lawsuit however was rejected by the court.
The plaintiff in this case is the same company that was investigated and penalized by the industry and commerce agency in October last year for selling land on the moon.
According to its person in charge, the company planned to sell World Cup air during the present World Cup.
However, the Industry and Commerce Administration of Beijing's Chaoyang District ordered publicly a halt to the sales.
The plaintiff felt that the World Cup air had been imported after being collected and individually packed in Germany and that because it had value and usage value, it constituted a commercial product.
In addition, there is currently no law or regulation that prohibits the sale of air, therefore the confiscation of the plaintiff's business permit by the Industry and Commerce Administration was not legal.
But the accused claimed that the plaintiff's request that special air from specific regions be added as an item to the company's business scope did not come under the scope established by the national economy categorization standards.
It was also vague, meaning there was no way to carry out effective supervision according to industry standards, so the notice of rejection of registration was not improper.
The court, in hearing the case, felt that according to the administrative regulations on company registration, the plaintiff's application to sell special air from specific regions could not be supervised under the national economy industry categorization standards.
The rejection of the plaintiff's registration application by the Administration of Industry and Commerce of Chaoyang District complied with laws and regulations and would help maintain order in the country's market economy, and so the court rendered the above judgment.