From Turkey,
Pope Benedict XVI began his first visit to the lands of Islam in Ankara.
The Supreme Pontiff received two welcomes, one official that was not lacking in hospitality, but the second was popular and it was an angry one.
The Pope met with the supreme religious authority in Turkey and called for a dialogue of civilizations.
In spite of his attempts at distancing his visit from any political character, he nevertheless declared his support for Turkey's accession to the European Union.
A noticeable change in his position did not alter the resentment of the Turkish street on account of his previous statements on Islam.
Ankara Airport is the first Islamic soil on which Pope Benedict XVI sets foot since his ascension to the papal throne.
In his reception, he found the Turkish Prime Minister, who postponed his trip to attend the NATO summit in Latvia so that the Pope would not seem as officially unwelcome as he is popularly unwelcome.
But the diplomacy of welcomes does not hide the embarrassment of both sides at a visit laden with veiled political symbolism, including the symbol communicated by the Pope's first activity.
The visit to the mausoleum of the founder of modern Turkey, Kemal Ataturk, was a stance on the proposition of secularism, and words with religious significance written by the Pope in the mausoleum's golden visitors ' book and a stamp that the Pope insisted on displaying in the plane that carried him to Turkey.
This is not a political visit ; it is a religious visit aiming at finding common ground for peace and deepening the dialogue.
A dialogue between the various cultures and between the two religions of Christianity and Islam.
But politics has followed the Pope as it has preceded him.
Erdogan tried to ease the atmosphere by saying that the Pope's position on Turkey's accession to the European Union was contrary to his position when he was called Cardinal Ratzinger.
The Pope said in reply to my question on Turkey's joining the European Union that he is not a politician but he supports this accession.
But the change in positions did not change anything in the universal anger that is sweeping through the Turkish street.
Thousands of Turks came out under the vigilant eyes of the security forces to reject the Pope's visit and to protest his failure to retract his statements about Islam.