Neither candidate will be declared the President-elect until at least Friday.
That's when the overseas ballots will be counted and factored into the candidates ' final totals.
The World's Jennifer Glass reports from London.
There are Floridians all over the world.
Because abroad are n't counted in our census, no one knows how many, and no one knows how many voted.
Those who did it like Margaret Sawn, an American working in Costa Rica, says she is glad a week and a half before Americans in the United States went to the polls that she cast her absentee ballot for George Bush.
Well, because, you know, Gore was going after the outer voters very hard, I did feel Friday would be important, and, of course I did n't think, it would get down to this but who would n't.
Here in London, Frances Deek is a retired teacher who lived in Britain for 18 years.
She says she cast her absentee ballot for Al Gore.
Deek says in recent days, she has had to defend the United States's political system.
Britains who notice she is American, have let her know what they think of the elections.
They keep saying, " Oh, is n't that terrible.
The biggest democracy in the world and it's all falling apart.
And I say it is because we are a democracy that it's happening this way.
It's because everybody gets the vote.
It's because people will not let things slide.
They want to know everything.
This is part of being a democracy.
But for Americans abroad, says Geek, participating in democracy voting is more work then for Americans in the United States.
You have to make a very conscious effort and it takes mailing two things to get to vote.
You have to send in your card to start with, and then when you get the ballot bag, you have to send the ballot back.
So, it's harder than if you just wandered up to your poll on Election Day and voted because you have been registered for years.
In the Israeli town of Ramad Beithshamuz, Karen London originally from Hollywood, Florida, says she and her husband almost did n't vote.
Her ballot arrived late.
Her husband said voting was a waste of time, but she insisted and mailed their ballots.
Now London says she is glad she did n't listen to her husband and so is he.
I did n't think anything of it and so when my grandson called Wednesday morning to say, ' Wake up, today your vote is going to count ', then it was really a matter of, you know, our vote not only does it count like it shows in any election, but it really counts in the final and we voted an absentee ballot.
But Londons did n't say which way they voted but they have cast ballots in each of the three Presidential elections held since they moved to Israel 9 years ago.
This year, says Karen, has been special and a little frightening.
It's quite a daunting feeling to think that, you know, of hundreds and millions of people, you know, in this case our vote counts, although it does n't count more than any other citizen's vote, in this particular moment it counts more than everybody else's, because that's what they are waiting for.
Major Mikiang, a Floridian based in Germany is from Okichobee County, Florida.
He says despite the waiting, the court cases and the uncertainty, he is not worried that there 'll be a constitutional crisis in the United States.
I do n't really have any concerns at all.
I am very confident that our form of government that checks and balances the way we set the process up and the way it is moving, so many things to fall back on to keep the process moving, that I am not really concerned at all.
One radio announcer here in London made an accurate and insightful comment today.
At a time like this with the Presidency hanging in the balance, in many nations the generals have moved in.
In America the lawyers do.
For the World, I am Jennifer Glass in London.