In New Delhi today, Indians like Americans are consuming their favorite traditional foods, roties, dal and increasingly burgers and fries.
The Golden Arches and the Kentucky Colonel are becoming familiar sites in the country and as the World's Tinku Ray reports, many Indians are giving a fast welcome to fast food.
Visit any McDonalds in the capital and it will be packed with families, the young and old enthusiastically eating their burgers and fries.
The American fast food giant opened its first outlet in India four years ago and has now expanded to twenty-five around the country.
But imagine a McDonalds without beef, no big macs, no cheese burgers, instead the choice is McAlu tikki burger or chicken kebabs.
Vikram Bakshi, Managing Director of McDonalds India explains the customized menu.
We knew that we were in a country, which is culturally sensitive.
From day one we went beefless and porkless, so we could look after the sentiments of both the Hindus and the Muslims.
From day one we knew that there was an issue about vegetarianism.
We had to be very conscious about it and we did a segregation in our kitchens, which has been unheard of.
And the strategy has been a popular one for McDonalds, as a sample poll of lunchtime customers outside a restaurant in South Delhi shows.
We get a lot of variety here and it's very tasty also.
If they offered you only, say, a fully western menu, would it still appeal to you ?
No, no that's not good.
I think it should be both, the Western and the Indian, both.
The food here offered is a lot better than what you find in the US.
In what ways ?
Here, you know, it's like it's American as well as Indian taste.
It's a very wise move for them because if they would have only just original McDonalds, I do n't think they would have done so great.
I think by blending things, you know, they have done a very wise move.
Along the narrow crowded streets of old Delhi, is where you can find fast food, Indian style.
These are roadside restaurants often called dhabas that serve up recipes of dal, vegetables and stuffed puries, deep-fried in oil.
This traditional and cheap fare has proved stiff competition for the multinational fast food chains, but they 've been fighting hard and maybe closing in.
Pizza delivery chain Dominos turned a profit for the first time last year, after five years in the Indian market.
Dominos has also adapted to Indian tastes by creating special toppings, butter chicken and chana masala pizzas.
The simple idea of home delivery is also rather new to India, but seems to have captured people's imagination.
Dominos Chief Executive Pawan Bhatia says, the secret of their success is to introduce Western brands with an Indian twist.
If I walk in to a lot of the companies who failed and if you put this, have they given a choice and the answer most of the time will be no.
They have decided the menu.
India is a deeply religious and traditional country, but in the past decade thanks to globalization and cable TV, the population has been exposed to dozens of multinational brands from burgers to washing machines and pizzas to Pepsi, but despite the desire to embrace globalization, there is still a reluctance to change completely.
Marketing analyst Sohail Seth, believes that fast food companies will only survive if they take seriously the need to be culturally sensitive.
As a nation we do n't like to experiment too much, so food is such a personal item, it's such an important item of our daily existence that the last thing we 'd like is any international fast food company coming in and tinkering with our palate.
Ironically, what the Western fast food chains are doing here is the same as what Indian restaurants have done and been very successful at in the United States and Europe, adapting and adjusting according to local tastes.
For The World, this is Tinku Ray, New Delhi.