The Mid East peace talks in Washington reportedly took a turn for the worse today.
Two senior Palestinian officials accused Israel of backtracking on proposals aimed at resolving the future of Jerusalem.
Israel denied the accusation.
In the Middle East, the continuing violence seems to underline the urgency of the talks.
At least four more people were killed in the West Bank and Gaza Strip with both sides blaming each other for the bloodshed.
The World's Richard Myron is in Tel Aviv now.
Richard, describe what's been happening today.
Well, we have had unfortunately what we term a busy day here today, including a suicide bombing in a Jewish settlement in the northern part of the West Bank.
What apparently happened was that a Palestinian went in to a roadside restaurant and he blew himself up critically injuring a number of people.
Elsewhere, in the West Bank and Gaza there have been deaths of Palestinians.
One Palestinian was apparently shot, so the Israeli Army claims, by Palestinian fire.
He was working in the greenhouse in a Jewish settlement.
Elsewhere, a number of other Palestinians were killed in clashes with Israeli forces.
So it has been an unfortunately, as I say, busy and bloody day here, and this was happening on the last Friday in Ramadan, which is a very important day for Muslim prayer.
Was there any trouble today around the holy sites in Jerusalem ?
The trouble was very limited.
There were some scuffles, there was a little bit of stone throwing and at one point the Western War Plaza, the area that stands in front of the Jewish holy site of the West Moor was cleared, it is adjacent to the Muslim site of the Haram al-Sharif or Temple Mount.
This was cleared because of some stone throwing.
It was fairly limited.
The Israeli police and security forces have acted in the past few weeks to try and ensure that they have as much control as possible drafting in 3000 policemen and security officials, also not allowing Palestinians in from the West Bank.
They must be 45 years and over to enter the Old City, if they are from Jerusalem, 35 years and older.
So it has limited the numbers inside, and therefore the amount of trouble, but there was some scuffle and it was expected in a way that there would be certainly tension and a little bit of trouble there today.
Of course, all of this is happening against the backdrop of peace talks in Washington, which are in their fourth day today.
What about people on the ground there where you are ?
Are they hopeful something might come out of this ?
Are they even paying heed to what is happening in Washington ?
I think people are paying heed because I think people realize that there is a sense that it could happen.
There is a great sense of urgency here.
They are really berserk.
The security situation has deteriorated to a very bad level and could deteriorate yet further unless there is some kind of agreement.
Having said that, I think there is really a great sense of pessimism amongst both sides.
Talking of the Israeli side first of all, the middle ground in Israel, I think, feels very disappointed and to some extent disillusioned with the Palestinians and does n't feel that there is much of a possibility for an honest deal.
They do n't trust the other side.
I think they may want the deal to happen, but they do n't trust the intentions of the other side.
The Palestinians for their part, I think, are deeply pessimistic.
They have mistrusted the Israelis throughout this process and have viewed the process as one, which has gradually robbed them of their rights, and I think they see any agreement as a sellout.
So basically neither side enters this with a great sense of hope, but I think both sides ultimately recognize that in a way if they are to have some kind of agreement or if they are to live with each other, they have either got to do it by negotiation or by blood and I think obviously most people would rather live with each other in peace, the peace which can be found through negotiations.
It sounds then as if there is not necessarily a big willingness at this point to compromise any more than there was earlier, especially as President Clinton comes in to speak with the negotiators tomorrow.
Well, I am speaking of the people, amongst the leadership I think there may be a tendency to compromise.
We have heard reports that the Israelis are willing, or at least the two sides are close to a deal on Jerusalem i.e. that the Palestinians would get sovereignty over East Jerusalem, which is what they have claimed is justly theirs and what they want, and there is also a talk of borders and the refugees being discussed.
There is a great sense of urgency, I think that a deal should be reached.
The Israelis are particularly keen with the forthcoming election.
I think, this Israeli government wants to deliver to the people a deal so that has something to get the electorate with.
The Palestinians, some could argue, are in a better negotiating position, but equally then if they are faced with the prospect of the Prime Ministership of the right wing leader Ariel Sharon, they may judge that this is the best time to do a deal equally.
The World's Richard Myron speaking to us from Tel Aviv.
Thank you Richard for the update.
Thank you, Lisa.