Five years ago today, the agreement ending the war in Bosnia was initialed in Dayton Ohio.
Western leaders were n't wild about relying on Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic to help implement the accord, but they felt they had no choice.
Five years later, the West and the United States in particular are n't counting on the deposed leader for anything.
They want to see his successor Vojislav Kostinica extradite Milosevic through the International War Crimes Tribunal in The Hague, but not only is Milosevic still living comfortable in Belgrade, last night he made his first TV appearance in six weeks, giving a pep talk to his supporters.
The World's Jeb Sharp reports on the still unresolved fate of Slobodan Milosevic.
He's kept Western diplomats spinning in circles for more than a decade.
Five years ago they were negotiating with Milosevic at Dayton to stop the war in Bosnia.
Two years ago they were still shuttling back and forth to Belgrade in an effort to solve the Kosovo crisis.
By March of last year they had given up talking and Nato had started bombing instead.
When Milosevic was indited on war crimes charges soon after, US and other Western officials began calling for his arrest and transfer to The Hague, but now that a delicate transition is underway in Serbia, those calls have grown quieter, according to Gary Bass, the author of the new book about war crimes trials, ` Stay, the Hand of Vengeance '.
Even Madeleine Albright, who is with the President who is usually most decipherous about the importance of prosecuting war criminals, has in fact said that our first priority is making sure that Vojislov Kostunica can consolidate his democratic government and make that transition, and the issue of punishing war criminals sort of takes a back seat.
Bass says US diplomats do n't want to risk destabilizing Serbia's fragile political situation by pushing too hard for war crimes trials.
After all Bass points out, outside pressure has backfired in the past.
In Germany after World War I and in the Ottoman Empire also after World War I, the British and the French pushed really hard for war crimes trials, and the result in both countries was a kind of a nationalist backlash.
A nationalist backlash in Serbia right now could play into Milosevic's hands, especially with parliamentary elections scheduled for next month.
That's one reason Western governments are not demanding his immediate arrest, but critics of this approach say letting Milosevic stay in Belgrade could be equally destabilizing.
Eva Barnetts, professor of history at Yale, says President Kostunica should cooperate immediately with the Hague Tribunal.
This particular UN institution has in its power really to give instant legitimacy to Kostunica but of course at a price.
It means that the government of Yugoslavia has to become very serious about dealing with the indited war criminals, beginning with Slobodan Milosevic himself.
But even officials at The Hague say they are willing to be patient with the new Yugoslav President.
Tribunal spokesman Jim Landel says it helps that Kostunica's people who initially refused to even entertain the idea of arresting Milosevic, may be starting to cooperate with the Tribunal.
They have already indicated that they are willing to allow the reopening of the prosecutor's liaison office in Belgrade, and that's certainly a welcome first step.
However, it is only a first step.
The Tribunal's chief prosecutor Carla Del Ponte has applied for a Yugoslav visa and plans to visit Belgrade soon.
Delponte's spokeswoman says the prosecutor has much to discuss with Kostunica, not least how to arrest all the indited war crimes suspects now in Serbia.
That wo n't be easy.
Even in Bosnia where Nato is in charge, troops have failed to capture Bosnian-Serb leader Radavan Karadzic, indited on genocide charges in connection with the 1995 massacre at Shrabanitca.
Yale history professor Eva Barnett says the excuses for not arresting Karadzic are not persuasive.
The claim is that this would engender tremendously destabilizing consequences that in any event it might be a very, very bloody affair and so on.
This does not seem terribly compelling to me.
I think that it has to be tried and of course there is always a danger that somebody might get hurt in this, but that is a danger that every attempt at remedying criminal activity has to face.
Hague prosecutor Carla Del Ponte is prepared to discuss arrest strategies with Kostunica including the use of foreign troops.
It's difficult to know how he would react.
Kostunica has questioned the legality of the Hague Tribunal, and talked of trying Milosevic in Yugoslavia.
Still, Kostunica's grace period wo n't last forever.
When the US Congress approved one hundred million dollars in aid to Serbia last month, it stipulated the aid would stop flowing if Belgrade has n't cooperated with the tribunal by March 31st.
For The World, I am Jeb Sharp.