A visit that was not a surprise for Arab League Secretary General Amr Moussa to Beirut.
In the face of stubbornness from the opposition and majority teams, an Arab intervention was necessary on the settlement process.
But Moussa did not say that what he carries with him is a plan for a solution, but he confirmed that the Arab milieu and the Arab League can not be spectators in a very dangerous and critical situation in these moments in Lebanon.
What is clear is that Moussa insists on making a crack in the wall of the crisis ; he considered that the door is open for meetings with all factions, because the movement aims at supporting all Lebanon, not just the government of Prime Minister Siniora.
National reconciliation, as he views it, is the basis and the starting point for any Arab action.
The situation in Lebanon is most critical,
And ah all Arab leaders and ah the joint Arab work in the framework of the Arab League is trying ah, to deal with this situation with all cautiousness, all brotherhood, and at the same time with all optimism, because Lebanon should not be an arena except for the Lebanese to progress, prove or consolidate their national unity, and go forward.
A step that the Prime Minister seemed eager for the Arab League to welcome, even if his positions intersected with Moussa in not calling this movement an initiative.
While it seems that the government of Prime Minister Fouad Siniora receives notable Arab and international support, the parliamentary majority seemed insistent on investing this support by insisting on throwing the ball in the court of Parliament Speaker Nabih Berri, who was visited by a delegation of the March Fourteenth forces expressing ideas he described as unannounced endeavors to reach a way out from the tension, at a time when the majority itself renews support for Prime Minister Siniora and his government from the government palace.
We do not want to give the issue more than it actually means, I can not say there is an initiative, but this is an important and essential step.
And we hope it develops to become an action we can follow.