In the other major story out of the Middle East, Arab Foreign Ministers met today in Cairo in advance of Saturday's Arab's summit.
Egypt called the emergency summit to declare support for the Palestinians in the wake of three weeks of violence that has left at least 106 people dead, almost all of them Palestinian.
Violence has abated somewhat since the deal was struck at Sharm el-Sheikh two days ago, but Arab governments are under pressure from their own citizens to take a tough stance against Israel.
James Drummond, covering the Arab summit in Cairo for the Financial Times.
James, there's a reason why the Arabs wanted this pre-summit meeting.
What is the pressure on them prior to the summit ?
Well, I think they want to try and iron out any potential difficulties before the heads of state come into town on Saturday and Sunday.
So this is a preparatory exercise to reach some sort of agreement beforehand.
Of course, the problem is that not all Arab states are speaking again with one voice.
What do they hope to achieve ? and what can you claim from the statements made today ?
It is difficult to say, Arab's summit have traditionally been exercises in division.
We have already seen problems from Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi on Tuesday who appeared on Al-Jazeera, the pan-Arab satellite channel, and, rubbish, what he said was a draft statement for the end of the summit on Sunday.
And he was very categorical that it was too weak and did not harm Israeli interests sufficiently.
So we have Gadafi on the one hand.
On the other hand we have Egypt which was the first Arab country to make peace with the Jewish state, which is of course also a top recipient of US aid.
The Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak is more of a voice of moderation against the other side.
Tell us about what he has been saying.
Well, Mr. Mubarak has been, as you say, a voice of moderation.
He has invested an awful amount in the peace with Israel, and really he can not afford to let it fail.
We have seen some more power techniques perhaps from his Foreign Minister Amre Moussa over the last few weeks, but Amre Moussa today at the Foreign Minister's meeting was calling simply for the return of East Jerusalem to the Palestinians, in stark contrast to Syrian Foreign Minister Faruq al-Shara who was pulling for a complete cut in diplomatic relations between Israel and the two Arab states that happen.
So Egypt is playing a calming role.
It will not want to see anything too strong coming out of this summit due to end on Sunday.
What seemed to be the prevailing voices at this point ?
There are certainly calls for war against Israel.
Is there much support for that ?
Well, actually President Mubarak was very categorical today in condemning calls for war, which he said were very serious and people should understand the implications of just what it meant.
Egypt and Jordan do not want to see any sort of conventional war against Israel.
They have both invested enormous amounts in it, and both regimes would be more vulnerable if the peace process were to fail, because detractors and opponents within each country would have ammunition by which to fire at them.
How much is the United States entering into the conversation and how much pressure seems to be coming from the United States ?
Well today not too much.
I mean Madeleine Albright was in Saudi Arabia yesterday where she met with crown prince Abdullah and the new Syrian President Bashar Al-Assad.
Interestingly enough she is quoted as telling General Sanholi back to the US that she did not really get too much of a reception from Bashar Al-Assad in terms of lightening the traditionally antagonistic Syrian align towards Israel.
Nonetheless, the fact that she did meet with Bashar Al-Assad and it was n't Saudi Arabia which is traditionally being more dovish and has supported US policy, it is significant.
So, as of today, I would say certainly on the surface there has been little US action.
Well, thank you very much for the update.
James Drummond, correspondent for the Financial Times of London speaking to us from Cairo.
Thank you James.
Thanks.