Philippine President Gloria Arroyo has declared that the Philippines is a disaster-stricken country because of the hurricane which hit the country last Thursday.
At the same time, devastated villages began to bury their victims as officials attempted to obtain food and water supplies.
Rescue teams continued search operations for more bodies under the volcanic rubble, rocks and mud amidst predictions that the death toll would rise to around 700.
This is how the villages looked, buried by the mud, flood and rain waters which accompanied the destructive hurricane that swept across broad expanses of the eastern Philippines.
At the same time, the country began a relief operation to reach the victims of the natural disaster which left behind around 700 dead and thousands of homeless, injured and missing people.
The country's president Gloria Arroyo Macapagal declared the Philippines a disaster-stricken country entitled to aid.
She called on the countries of the world and on international relief organizations to quickly send convoys of humanitarian aid which include medical and food aid and the necessary equipment to extricate bodies buried by mud under the rubble of their homes in poor villages.
This comes as the disaster-stricken villages, as a result of the mudslides in the east Philippines, began to bury their dead in a painful picture which reminded the world of the tsunami that struck the coasts of Asia at the beginning of last year.
Rescue teams continued their search operations for more bodies under the volcanic debris, rocks and mud at the foot of Mayon volcano in the Albay province at a distance of 330 kilometers south of the capital Manila.
For its part, the National Disaster Coordinating Council confirmed that at least 285 people had been killed in the province of Albay, the majority of their deaths caused by mudslides resulting from Hurricane Durian.
At the same time, at least 292 people are still amongst the missing and it is feared that they may have died as well.
The council said that Hurricane Durian which hit the east Philippines coast last Thursday with a maximum wind speed of 195 kilometers per hour caused the deaths of 18 other people in the provinces of Camarine Sur, Catanduanes, Quezon and Oriental Mindoro.
A local Red Cross official in Albay said that statistics suggested that the number of missing people could reach 779 people.
Experts said that the torrential rain which accompanied Hurricane Durian stirred up volcanic ash sediments on the upper slopes of Mount Mayon causing severe mudslides which buried the surrounding areas.