No clear features have appeared yet for the Jordanian initiative seeking a way out of the crisis between the two sides of the Palestinian Authority and Abbas ' government, amid separation of positions, between the calls of President Mahmoud Abbas for early general elections and Hamas ' insistence on its refusal and the emphasis on a national unity government, while the realities in the field warn of destroying the fragile cease-fire.
The features of the Jordanian initiative, which the media have circulated to deal with the internal Palestinian struggle between the Fatah and Hamas movements, have not appeared yet.
Whereas only Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas received an invitation to visit the Jordanian capital next Sunday, the Hamas movement announced its welcome to the Jordanian role, but it confirmed its position in which it considers the only way out of the crisis is a national unity government on the basis of the national reconciliation accord, and not according to American and Israeli measures, according to Hamas.
The Hamas movement declared its position and will not change this position, that it wo n't accept these elections and the coup on the will of the Palestinian people.
Ah--the only alternative is the dialogues in order to form the national unity government on the basis of the Palestinian Document of National Reconciliation.
Any context outside this framework will lead to agitating the internal situation and reaching a stage that has no ah--good consequences.
In its turn, the Fatah movement confirmed its insistence on the necessity to form a technocratic government that is internationally accepted and aims at removing the siege.
The position of Fatah and the position of President Mahmoud Abbas, no return to the fruitless dialogue,--no return to a dialogue without results, no return to a dialogue in which the element of time is exploited.
We are looking forward to submitting creative ideas.
At the level of the other factions, supporters of six factions demonstrated, raising the Palestinian flag only, calling for Fatah and Hamas to abide by the truce agreement, to end the security chaos syndrome, and return to the negotiations table in order to activate the talks to form a national unity government.