Lebanon, Iraq and other hot issues were for the most part the gist of the call with which the Gulf leaders concluded their 27th summit in Riyadh.
Yes, Dalila, the concluding statement of the Riyadh summit warned against the partition of Iraq and demanded that parties it left unnamed not interfere in the internal affairs of Iraq.
Certainly, the summit did not conclude this session without an overview of progress on the customs union and the steps for establishing the Gulf Common Market.
Faiza Allaj.
The session was in the Gulf, but the flavor that characterized the atmosphere of the Cooperation Council summit was a blend of the crisis issues of the region, each according to its degree of urgency.
But Iraq, with its worsening situation, won a large share of the concluding statement of the Jaber Summit.
The security and stability of Iraq can only be achieved with the cooperation of all its people, regardless of their denominational, ethnic or religious affiliations, as well as their joint efforts to give precedence to the interests of Iraq over all considerations, preserve the unity of its people and its territory, and reject the calls for division and partition.
Iran, which was implicitly reminded not to interfere in the affairs of Iraq, was explicitly mentioned with the expression of Gulf concerns for its possession of nuclear programs.
And on the rest of the Arab crises, and in particular Lebanon, the Gulf leaders called on all parties to adhere to the constitutional and legitimate institutions of that country and condemned the return to acts of violence and political assassinations.
Concerning Palestine, a call was issued to speed up the formation of a national unity government and reject political conflicts between the two movements, Fatah and Hamas.
The concluding statement of the Jaber Summit reviewed in detail the progress made on the customs union and the steps for the establishment of the Gulf Common Market.
It approved allowing the citizens of the Council to exercise a number of economic activities.
Those are the steps that are expected to complete the process of economic integration, which is what all the peoples of the Gulf want.