The Somali Islamic Courts announced that Ethiopia had invaded the country and called on all Somalis to expel them.
The Courts also said that its fighters killed 203 Ethiopians, and wounded twice this number,.
Lines are intertwined in Somalia with the escalation of events that raise many questions.
Has that country reached the brink of an all-out war that may drag into it, in one way or another, most of the Horn of Africa states ?
And, is it possible to resume the Khartoum negotiations in light of the continued present complication of issues ?
The answer so far appears unclear.
The fighters of the Islamic Courts announced their control of the city of Ibla south of Baidoa, the headquarters of the transitional government, after killing dozens of Ethiopian soldiers in that city.
They warned about the likelihood of opening new fighting fronts in the town of Jaree, where they say Ethiopian troops have entered.
<foreign lang="unknown"> <foreign>
We want the entire world to know that Ethiopia has invaded Somalia and the war now is with the Ethiopian government.
All the people of Somalia are urged to repel this invasion.
So far we have defeated the enemies, but I call on all the people to rise up to expel the enemy out of the country.
The Somali transitional government has acknowledged the violent fighting taking place in the south of the country,
but it has described it as occurring between the forces of the government and the fighters of the Islamic Courts that reject the country's legitimate authority.
It has denied any connection with the Ethiopians or others in the matter.
Parliament has approved dispatching forces to help us train, uh, the national forces.
So the Ethiopian forces are from these, are among these forces.
And in such deteriorating conditions in which all sides exchange blame, dense fog seems to surround the outcome of the mission undertaken over the last few days by Louis Michel, the European Union Aid Commissioner.
Michel had announced that the parties to the conflict have agreed to stop fighting, but this has not yet happened.
He also announced the agreement by the concerned parties to resume the Khartoum negotiations.
And it appears that the only remaining glimmer of hope to extinguish the fuse is for the parties to go to Khartoum without conditions, despite the difficulties entailed with accomplishing this.