This is The World.
I am Tony Kahn.
Novelist and playwright Gao Xingjian today became the first Chinese language author to win the Nobel Prize for Literature.
Gao Xingjian's avant-garde plays made him persona non-grata in his native China and he fled the country in 1988.
He settled in France becoming a French citizen two years ago.
Gregory Lee is a professor of Chinese and Chinese literature at the University of Lyons in France.
Professor Lee, I gather you know the man and know his work.
Tell us a little bit about him, Who is he and why did he flee China.
Gao Xingjian is quite an interesting writer because in some senses he differs from the great cohort of contemporary Chinese writers that are well known in the West today.
I would say that the great difference about Gao Xingjian is that he actually received a university education.
He was educated in French, so has a very good knowledge of French literature and it is very much French literature that has influenced his own literary creativities, only free production, so much so that conservative Chinese critics would accuse him of blind worship of Western models.
Sartre is a big man in Mr. Xingjian's life, is n't he ?
I would say so that Sartre has been a quite a big influence.
I think the other influences would be Samuel Beckett, the Irish and French language writer, Unesco.
These are models and, of course, all of these writers are writers who were active in the first half of the twentieth century.
Well, this is very interesting because Mr. Gao left China before Tianenmen.
He wrote a play, in particular about the events there.
Would you say that his influences may be more French literary then they were his own immediate life experience ?
I would say both, in fact, because the first play that he wrote that made him famous was a play that dates from 1981, which was actually called ` Bus Stop ', which many people said or had resonances from Beckett's play ` Waiting for Godot ' and it concerned a number of Chinese people from different walks of life who were standing at a bus stop waiting for a bus that never came.
So, we can see immediately that the resonances with the play of Beckett, but Gao Xingjian really before 1989 felt, that he was unable to write and to have his plays produced, as he would wish, and so left China couple of years before the incident at Tiananmen in 1989.
I think it is a great day for modern Chinese literature and it is a day that has been awaited for the past 60 to 70 years.
Gregory Lee is a professor of Chinese and Chinese literature at the University of Lyons, France.
He spoke to us from his home in Provence.
Professor, thank you very much for speaking with us.
Not at all.
Thank you very much.