A second round of Israeli-Palestinian peace talks ended Saturday night with no breakthrough reported.
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat and former Israeli Prime Minister Shimone Peres joined the talks.
Correspondent Laurie Cassman reports from Jerusalem, the two leaders held the first direct high level talks since November.
The goal of the meetings is to narrow differences over a US framework for negotiating a final peace settlement.
There is little optimism a final deal can be reached before President Bill Clinton leaves office next week, but the Arafat-Peres meeting represents the highest level encounter since last November.
That was when Shimone Peres tried to broker a cease-fire with Yasser Arafat to curb the violence.
Mr. Peres now describes the US proposals as the best framework for peace talks.
The Palestinians have conditionally accepted the ideas, but with a long list of reservations.
The talks are expected to resume later in the day to focus on how to renew security cooperation.
The groundwork has been laid through a series of confidence building measures on both sides.
Israel has started easing its closure of the West Bank and Gaza as Palestinian attacks against Israelis have subsided.
The meeting Saturday night lasted more than two hours.
No details of the substance of the talks have been released.
Israel's Foreign Minister, former Chief of Staff and Prime Minister Ehud Barak's top aide joined Nobel Laureate Shimone Peres for the talks.
Yasser Arafat was joined by his top peace negotiators and the head of preventive security in the Gaza Strip.
Just hours earlier two Palestinians were executed by a firing squad after being convicted of collaborating with Israel.
Crowds cheered the executions in Nablus and Gaza.
The Palestinian Justice Minister says it sends a clear message to anyone thinking about betraying his homeland.
The two men had been convicted of passing information or helping Israeli security assassinate Palestinian militants.
The Palestinians accuse Israel of actively targeting activists during the latest uprising.
Israel says it will hunt down anyone who plans or carries out terrorist attacks against Israelis.
More than three months of clashes, shootings and assassinations on both sides have claimed more than 360 victims, most of them Palestinians.
Laurie Cassman VOA News, Jerusalem.