Local elections took place peacefully across Colombia on Sunday despite violence that had marred the run-up to the elections.
Colombians voted for candidates for governors, mayors and town council members, many of them independents challenging the two traditional political parties.
Vordis Navaro reports from the capital Bogota.
The voting comes after several weeks of increased tensions with 21 candidates killed and more than 100 withdrawing from the elections citing intimidation.
During the past week alone, both rebel and paramilitary groups kidnapped eight political officials or candidates.
The two to influence the democratic process.
The government launched a massive security operation to counter the violence.
Some 150,000 soldiers and police were deployed across the country to stop any possible disruptions.
Voters were being checked before being allowed to enter the voting areas and police were patrolling around polling stations.
The security measures seem to have worked.
Polls closed a few incidents of trouble reported.
For the first time ever some Colombians voted in a zone under the control of the leftist insurgents waging a 36-year-old war on the state.
The Colombian rebels considered the political system illegitimate but the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia or Farc allowed the elections to proceed nevertheless.
However, charges that the leftist rebels stole ballots caused election officials to void voting in one of the five Farc-controlled areas and the mayoral candidate openly backed by the Farc in the rebel stronghold of lost to an independent candidate.
The nationwide local elections are a test for Colombians ' two traditional parties the Liberals and the Conservatives.
They are increasingly blamed for Colombia's woes and many of the candidates who won in major areas are independent of those political parties.
But beyond the thousands of seats up for grabs, leaders say the Colombia's embattled democratic system is at stake.
Colombia has one of Latin America's strongest electoral traditions and little history of military coups but fighting between rival paramilitary groups, government troops and rebel groups has left thousands dead and forced millions to flee their homes.
Vordis Navaro for VOA News, Bogota.