In Egypt, President Hosni Mubarak's ruling party is claiming victory in the second of three rounds of voting in parliamentary elections, but as VOA's Scott Bob reports from Cairo, Islamic candidates also made significant gains accompanied by some of the election's worst violence.
Results from the first two rounds of the elections give Egypt's ruling National Democratic Party 224 seats in the next assembly.
The Party gained dozens of additional seats Sunday when independent candidates pledged allegiance after winning their races.
These candidates had run as independents after they were passed over in the nomination process.
Meanwhile, candidates of the banned Muslim Brotherhood have won 15 seats in the next parliament ; up from one seat in the last elections five years ago.
Islamist candidates run as independents because Egyptian law prohibits political parties based on religion.
Legal opposition parties including the Waft or Liberal Party and the leftist Stagamo and Nascist parties have won 10 seats so far in the parliament.
The third and final round of voting, including the populous Cairo region, is to begin on Wednesday.
A Muslim Brotherhood candidate from the Nile Delta city of Bandadel Mansoor, who lost his race, Saber Zaher, said the message of Islamists is not to win or lose but to be allowed to participate in the process.
Mr. Zaher said the group wants to prove to the system it has support among the people and that it is wrong to exclude it.
In the run-up to the election, security forces arrested scores of Muslim Brotherhood leaders and hundreds of their sympathizers in an effort to weaken the group, which is viewed as the second strongest political force in the country.
Islamist leaders have also accused security forces of preventing voters from entering polling stations in areas where the opposition is strong.
Four people died and scores were injured in clashes during Saturday's run-off election in the Nile Delta province of Dekaharia.
One person was killed in the first round of voting.
These elections for the first time are being monitored by the Egyptian judiciary.
An Egyptian court ordered monitoring by the judiciary after the previous elections were ruled unconstitutional because of widespread irregularities and violence in which at least 60 people were killed.
Scott Bob, VOA News, Cairo.