President Vladimir Putin began an official visit to Cuba Wednesday, the first by a Russian leader since the collapse of the Soviet Union almost a decade ago.
VOA's Sonia Paes reports that unlike Soviet leaders, Mr. Putin intends to concentrate on business, not politics.
In the old days of the Cold War when Soviet leaders met with Cuba's Fidel Castro, it was usually a time for bear hugs and long and often fiery ideological speeches.
Times have changed.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has made it clear he brings no ideological baggage with him to Cuba this week.
According to political analyst Andre Reabov of the Carnegie Endowment in Moscow, strengthening Russia's business and economic ties with Cuba are a priority for Mr. Putin.
Seems to me that one of the goals of this visit is to help, maybe to advance the interest of Russian companies in this island and maybe to restore the economical relationship between the Russian Federation and Cuba.
During Soviet times, Moscow poured in cash to subsidize the Cuban economy.
The Soviet Union provided Cuba with oil, petroleum products, foodstuffs and heavy machinery.
In return Moscow took Cuban sugar, citrus fruits, nickel and cobalt.
Today bilateral trade is a fraction of what it once was and stands at under one billion dollars a year.
President Putin has said it was a mistake to let that relationship wither and to allow foreign competitors to take the place that Russian enterprises once held.
The debt issue is certain to come up during talks in Havana.
Moscow would like to see Cuba repay some of the billions of dollars it still owes from loans that date back to the Soviet era.
No breakthrough agreements are expected but discussions are likely to also focus on finishing or reactivating a number of projects begun during Soviet times.
The Russian leader meets with President Castro Thursday morning and is also to hold talks with National Assembly President Ricardo Alarkon.
The issue of Cuban-American affairs is another likely topic of discussion.
On Tuesday President Putin called for an end to the American trade embargo against Cuba.
Political analyst Riyardov thinks Mr. Putin would like to encourage some sort of a between Havana and Washington, much as he has tried to do earlier this year with the United States and North Korea.
Mr. Putin tried to play the role of mediator between the Kinshumir regime of the Northern Korea and the US administration.
Seems to me he would delight to try to use the same line in the relationship between the Castro's regime and the US administration too.
Such an attempt would be in line with Mr. Putin's overall foreign policy agenda.
He wants to enhance Russia's standing in the world and to do that he believes that Moscow must assume a greater role in international affairs.
After talks in Havana on Thursday, Mr. Putin and his wife are scheduled to head to one of Cuba's premier beach resorts for two days of rest before traveling on to Canada.
Sonia Paes, VOA News, Moscow.