At the United Nations, controversy has broken out over a proposal to drastically tighten sanctions against the Taliban government in Afghanistan.
VOA correspondent Breck Ardery has more on this from the United Nations.
A proposed UN Security Council resolution jointly sponsored by Russia and the United States would tighten economic sanctions against the Taliban and ban all weapon shipments to them.
The proposal goes considerably beyond the existing sanctions, which ban Taliban air flights and freeze international bank accounts held by the Taliban.
Sponsors say the resolution is specifically meant to pressure the Taliban, to abandon its support of terrorism, and to surrender indicted terrorist Osama Bin Laden, but Pakistan's Ambassador to the United Nations Shamsed Ahmed told reporters his nation is strongly against the resolution and it is the wrong way to fight terrorism.
We abhor terrorism in all its forms and manifestations.
We are with the international community in combating this menace all over the world.
As far as this particular individual is concerned, this is a problem that needs to be resolved between the United States and the government in Afghanistan, which now is Taliban.
Mr. Ahmad says that instead of sanctions, the international community should engage in a dialogue with the Taliban, but Russia's Ambassador Serge Lavroff says the Taliban leadership does not inspire trust.
The problem is that the Taliban never delivered on a single promise, be this to start the dialogue, be this to stop fighting, be this to treat women and girls properly, or any other demand from the Security Council, in particular to stop the support for terrorism.
An American official told reporters the proposed new sanctions are not meant to harm the Afghan people.
He points out that humanitarian aid is specifically exempt from the sanctions.
He says, the United States is currently the largest single donor of food and relief supplies to the Afghan people and that the aid will continue.
Breck Ardery, VOA News, at the United Nations.