An international team is developing a vaccine against Alzheimer's Disease and they are trying it out on a new and improved mouse model of the onus.
Correspondent Jessica Berman explains.
Scientists working on a vaccine against Alzheimer's give a progress report this week in the journal Nature.
The vaccine has only been tested in mice that have been bred to have a form of Alzheimer's Disease very similar to that of humans.
According to University of Toronto researcher David Westaway, another team of scientists last year took the first step toward an Alzheimer's vaccine.
That team injected a small amount of amyloid protein, which accumulates in brains of Alzheimer's patients and injected it in the mice's abdomens.
The injection prompted the animals ' immune systems to kick in and clean up the amyloid deposits in the rodents ' brains.
But those mice never had any difficulties with learning and memory.
In Dr. Westaway's view, this made the vaccine sort of pointless, since learning and memory problems are a hallmark of Alzheimer's Disease.
So his research team decided to test a vaccine in mice with Alzheimer's more like that seen in many humans.
Now normally Alzheimer's Disease might have this strong deficit in learning and memory, actually in our experiments the ability to navigate around a small tank of water using cues pinned up on the wall of the testing room, and once we started immunizing the mice against the Alzheimer Disease peptides then the performance showed a dramatic improvement such as they came very close to the performance of regular mice that have not been genetically engineered to resemble Alzheimer's Disease.
A second Alzheimer's vaccine experiment was also reported in the journal Nature by a group of University of South Florida scientists in Tampa.
In a third published paper researchers formally described how they genetically engineered a mouse model of Alzheimer's similar to the human disease, complete with memory and learning impairment.
Neuroscientist Paul Chapman of the Cardiff School of Bio-Sciences in Wales, wrote an article in the magazine commenting on the developments.
We all know we 've got a long way to go before we have a cure for Alzheimer's Disease, but in order to get there we need to have confidence that we understand the disease and that we have what we call a model system for predicting whether these treatments will work.
And the fact that these papers are now showing us that behaviorally these models do what humans do, that is they behave more poorly as they age if they have Alzheimer's genes, and that these treatments can reverse that, it just means we have that much more confidence these treatments will work in humans.
In a related development an international team of researchers reports in the latest issue of the journal Science, that a genetic mutation in an area of chromosome ten may put some people at increased risk of late onset Alzheimer's Disease, the most common form of dementia in the elderly.
Jessica Berman, VOA News, Washington.