UN Secretary General Kofi Annan is traveling to Lebanon today in a bid to secure the release of three abducted Israeli soldiers.
Lebanese-based Hizbullah guerillas captured the soldiers, Saturday in an escalation of Mid East violence.
Tuesday, Mr. Annan met with Israeli and Palestinian leaders in a bid to end nearly two weeks of deadly clashes between Israeli soldiers and Palestinian protestors in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.
Israeli military officials say violence subsided somewhat on Tuesday.
Israel has postponed its deadline for a stronger military reaction to the rioting.
More than 90 people have died in the fighting, mostly Palestinians.
President Clinton has again had telephone conversations with Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, as well as talk with UN Secretary General Kofi Annan on ways to diffuse the Middle East crisis.
VOA correspondent David Gollust of the White House reports.
A trip to the region by Mr. Clinton to convene an emergency summit remains under discussion, although the White House insists no decision has been made.
The White House continues to stress Mr. Clinton's willingness to make a Middle East trip if it will help diffuse the violence and get the parties back to negotiations.
They say they are still waiting to hear if the leaders will be responsive to unspecified US preconditions for such a trip, but they say no decision has been made to go despite an Israeli television report to the contrary.
The possibility of a Clinton mission to the area has gotten heavy media coverage, but spokesman Jake Seaworth told reporters restoring calm is the central issue and not Mr. Clinton's travel plans.
Well, the President has spent a lot of time on the phone this weekend and this morning, not just discussing where and when, whether to have a summit, but whether we can break the cycle of violence and ultimately we are going to be focussed on the steps that may involve a trip, that may not involve a trip.
The President's 15-minute talk with Mr. Annan who was holding talks in the region also dealt with the tense situation along the Israeli-Lebanese border and this week's kidnapping of three Israeli soldiers by Hizbullah guerillas.
David Gollust, VOA News at the White House.