Police in Barcelona, Spain Thursday, arrested two suspected members of the violent Basque separatist group Eta as they were preparing what may have been a car bomb.
Gill Carbohol has more from Madrid.
Police arrested a man and a woman suspected of being members of Eta's Barcelona Commando Unit before dawn.
They were driving an automobile which had been stolen in a nearby town in September.
The couple had attracted the attention of police as they drove through pre-dawn Barcelona because the car's license plate was dangling and one of the car doors was ajar.
When they stopped the car police found the woman in the back seat with a package containing between fifteen to twenty kilograms of explosives.
Police also found a gun of the type used in the killings blamed on the Barcelona Commando in the past few months.
In a similar incident in Barcelona just twenty days ago, suspected Eta members who were likewise trying to place a car bomb, killed a city policeman and then got away.
Thursday's suspects readily identified themselves as members of Eta, although they gave false names.
The man has been positively identified as 37 year old but police could not immediately identify the woman.
Security officials are searching for at least one more member of the Barcelona Commando, which has killed two town councilmen, a former Minister of Health and a policeman in the past few months.
Spanish anti-bombs technicians have been busy this week.
On Wednesday they deactivated explosives placed outside a military installation in Gerona, just north of Barcelona, and on Tuesday Basque Regional Police deactivated a bomb placed in a flowerpot in a cemetery where members of the regional chapter of Spain's ruling Popular Party had gathered for a commemorative ceremony in honor of one of their town councilmen who had been killed three years ago.
Spanish Prime Minister Jose Marie Akhnar said that it was a miracle that a massacre had not occurred.
Eta has been responsible for killing at least 800 people over the last 32 years in its bid to carve out an independent state from northern Spain and south western France.
Meanwhile the Basque Country Regional Government, which is controlled by the pro-independence but moderate Basque National Party, said it would call regional elections later this year.
Basque Chief Minister Hwank Hosei Bariche has been under intense pressure from the Popular and Socialist Parties to call early elections.
He's been ruling with the minority governments since Eta's political wing broke its parliamentary alliance with his party last summer.
Gill Carbohol for VOA News, Madrid.