Welcome to another hour of news and information here on the Voice of America.
I'm Victor Moralis along with David Chadwick on VOA News Now.
India has signed a series of deals with Russia to acquire an aircraft carrier, fighter jets and tanks.
The deals were signed as Russian President Vladimir Putin concluded his talks with Indian leaders in New Delhi.
The two countries also signed a strategic partnership agreement, obligating both countries to avoid joining political or military alliances against each other.
They also agreed to form a joint working group for mutual concerns on terrorism.
News Now's Susan Yakie spoke with our New Delhi correspondent Jim Teeple about the Russian leader's visit and his comments about the situation in the disputed Kashmir region.
He said exactly what the Indians wanted to hear, which is that the dispute over Kashmir between India and Pakistan should be solved bilaterally and that there should be no outside interference, as he put it in this question.
Now this is something the Indians have been saying all along.
Of course, Pakistan wants international attention focussed on Kashmir, and Mr. Putin also said that he supports India's tough approach to the external violence in Kashmir as he described it.
This is another thing that the Indians were glad to hear him say, and he also said that both India and Russia suffer from the same sort of terrorism, as he put it, referring of course to the separatist militancies in Chechnya and Russia and in Jammu and Kashmir.
So on balance I do n't think that the Indians heard anything from Mr. Putin that they did not want to hear.
What sort of hold does Russia have on India and Pakistan ?
Russia has very little influence with Pakistan, but of course Russia supplies India with 70 % of its military hardware and that was of course the second pillar here of Mr. Putin's visit, which was to finalize some very substantial arms deals.
In fact, we 're hearing that those deals have now been finalized, that Russia will sell India 300 tanks, T-90 tanks, very advanced tanks, that Russia will also sell to India some Sukoi-30 bombers, fighter-bombers.
They are going to allow India to assemble about 140 of these bombers here in India, and they are also going to finalize a deal whereby India will acquire the Admiral Gorshkov.
That's an old Russian aircraft carrier that India has wanted to get for some time because India only has one other aircraft carrier, and this carrier in particular would allow the Indian Navy to extend its strategic strength much farther than it currently can now.
So indeed Russia does have quite a bit of influence here.
These ties have gone way back, nearly 40 years, and they were strengthened considerably by this visit.
In fact both countries have now agreed to combat what they call terrorism with joint groups.
They have also set up a joint working group on Afghanistan, which is of course a cause of concern for both countries.
Mr. Putin's visit is the first by a Russian leader in seven years.
Why does the trip come now ?
Well, his trip has actually been delayed for a couple of years.
Russian President was supposed to visit India as early as 97-1998, but of course Boris Yeltsin's health problems got in the way of that, and then of course, Mr. Yeltsin's abrupt resignation last year another visit and then the subsequent election campaign and inauguration of Vladimir Putin took some time, so it's been put off for a couple of years.
But there have also been a lot of delays in other areas.
These arms agreements that we were just speaking about have taken quite some time to finalize.
How does this visit by Mr. Putin compare to President Clinton's visit earlier this year ?
That's an interesting question because Vladimir Putin on Wednesday addressed the Indian Parliament just as Bill Clinton had done six months ago, and I think it's safe to say that Mr. Putin actually probably accomplished more than Mr. Clinton did in the hard concrete terms of arms sales and that sort of thing, but it was Mr. Clinton that stole the Indian lawmakers ' hearts.
Of course you will recall when he spoke to the parliament there was an ecstatic welcome for him.
The Indian lawmakers were sort of clambering over each other to shake his hand as he left the parliament building.
There was none of that for Mr. Putin, but he did receive a very warm welcome, although most ordinary Indians who were actually rather captivated by Mr. Clinton's visit did not really pay much attention to Mr. Putin's visit.
In fact his visit has somewhat been ignored and in fact the main news story here in India has been sort of a local controversy over the roll-back of fuel prices rather than Mr. Putin's visit, but he did do what he had to do and he certainly strengthened ties in a strategic sense between Russia and India.
That's VOA correspondent Jim Teeple.
In a joint statement Wednesday, India and Russia called for further measures against Afghanistan's dominant Taliban faction.
The statement accuses the Taliban of supporting international terrorism.