Here in the United States, it's just a week and a day before Americans go to the polls to fill offices from local school boards to Congress and the President.
In the latest daily CNN USA Today Gallup popular opinion survey, George W Bush, the Governor of Texas, the Republican nominee, holds a 49 % to 42 % advantage over his Democratic opponent Al Gore, the Vice President, but two other major surveys gave Mr. Bush only a one-point lead.
On Sunday, several major newspapers weighed in with their endorsements and VOA's Peter Hymline has that story.
In its Sunday editions, the New York Times calls Vice President Gore, the man best equipped for the presidency by virtue of his knowledge of government, his experience at the top levels of federal and diplomatic decision making and his devotion to the general welfare.
The Times editorial says Mr. Gore has, in its words, struggled impressively and successfully to escape the shadow of the Clinton administration's ethical lapses.
The paper's editorial board goes on to say, we believe Mr. Gore would never follow Bill Clinton's example of reckless conduct that cheapens the Presidency.
The Times also praise Republican candidate George W Bush for running what was described as a largely positive inclusive campaign but the writers said they had concluded Mr. Bush's agenda was harsh on issues such as women's rights, guns, and law enforcement.
The Times joins the Washington Post newspaper, which earlier gave its backing to Mr. Gore.
Other major dailies throwing their support to the Vice President Sunday included The Philadelphia Inquirer, The Denver Post and The San Jose California Mercury News.
Mr. Bush also picked up some key endorsements Sunday including both major Chicago papers.
In its editorial, The Chicago Tribune called Mr. Gore a decent man but concluded that, in its words, his penchant for enhancement has become something of a running joke.
The Tribune endorsement says this is an election about honesty, about restoring bipartisanship, about fostering government that will nurture a booming economy without getting in the way of American ingenuity.
The paper concludes that there is one candidate who will do that and that is George W Bush.
The battle of the editorials reflects what many political analysts predict will be one of the closest Presidential races in decades.
Most opinion polls give Mr. Bush a slight lead but a just released survey by Newsweek magazine puts the text.
The Newsweek poll indicates voters consider Vice President Gore the more intelligent candidate, but they see Governor Bush as more honest.
Peter Hymline, VOA News, Washington.