The Voice of America presents differing points of views on a wide variety of issues.
Next, an editorial expressing the policies of the United States government.
A Federal Grand Jury in New York has indicted five more suspects in connection with the August 1998 bombing of the United States embassies in Nairobi Kenya and Dar-e-salaam Tanzania.
These terrorist attacks killed hundreds and wounded thousands of men, women and children.
The indictments raised to 22 the number of those accused in the bombings.
Of the seventeen terrorists previously charged, eight have been captured.
The remaining fugitives, including Osama Bin Laden, are still being sought by the US.
The latest to be indicted are Saif Al Adel, Mushan Musa Matwali Atwa, Ahmed Mohammed Hamid Ali, Ahnes Alibi and Abdullah Ahmed Ardullah.
All are members of Al-Qaida, an Islamic terrorist group organized by Osama Bin Laden.
Al-Qaida has helped train terrorists from Tajikstan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Chechnya, Somalia, Sudan, Yemen, the Philippines, Egypt, Libya, Pakistan and Eritrea.
Al-Qaida receives safe haven from Taliban controlled Afghanistan where it operates a network of training facilities and conducts international terrorist operations.
The United Nations Security Council voted to expand sanctions on the Taliban movement because of its support for Al-Qaida and other terrorists.
The US supports these sanctions.
The US calls on the Taliban movement to end its sponsorship of international terrorism and hand over the terrorist fugitives it now protects.
The US is offering a reward of up to 5 million dollars for information that leads to the apprehension or conviction of Al-Qaida terrorists Sheikh Amed Salim Suedan, Ahmed Galani, Mustafa Mohammed Fadel, Imn Auzava Heari, Mohammed Altaf and Osama Bin Laden for their part in the African embassy bombings.
The US will not rest until these men have been brought to justice for their crimes.
That was an editorial expressing the policies of the United States government.
If you have a comment, please write to Editorials, VOA, Washington DC, 20237, USA.
You may also comment at www.ibb.goveditorials or fax us at 202.