Welcome to another hour of news and information on The Voice of America.
I'm David Chadwick with VOA News Now.
President Clinton is criticizing a proposal to open up food and medicine sales to Cuba, but toughen restrictions on travel there.
VOA's David Swan reports.
The House of Representatives is expected to vote on the measure next week.
Mr. Clinton says he will withhold final judgment until he sees details of the plan, which Members of Congress hammered out Thursday night, but he tells reporters that if the deal was what it appears to be, the lawmakers made a big mistake.
It looks like it eases the embargo on food and medicine, but it probably does n't very much because it does n't provide any financing credits, which we give to other poor countries, whereas it definitely restricts the ability of the executive branch to increase people-to-people contacts between Americans and Cubans.
The agreement which is part of a larger foreign bill, came after more than a year of political warfare and bargaining over the always sensitive subject of Cuba.
The measure would allow American food and medicine to be sold there for the first time in close to 40 years.
It also applies to four other nations where trade has been restricted, Iran, Sudan, Libya and North Korea, but Cuban-American House Members who fiercely oppose anything that might ease pressure on President Castro demanded concessions.
So, as Mr. Clinton noted, the plan bars American banks from financing the food sales, which means Havana would have to pay cash or obtain credits from third countries.
Another part of the legislation would tighten restrictions on American travel to Cuba.
The Castro government has already rejected the deal, saying it will not buy anything under these terms.
In contrast, the proposal supporters call it an opening to Cuba and an important shift in policy.
One leading farm group, the American Farm Bureau Federation describes it as a positive first step and much better than current law.
It appears Congress is not prepared to take any bigger steps on the issue this year.
David Swan, VOA News, Capitol Hill.