In Spain the Basque separatist group Eta has claimed responsibility for three killings and various attacks in recent months.
Gill Gabrahall reports from Madrid.
In a communique published in two Basque newspapers The terrorist group ETA said it conducted a series of terrorist attacks since October.
Eta also threatened those who signed an anti-terrorist pact promoted by Spain's two major political parties.
The Basque terrorist group admitted to killing former Socialist Health Minister Ernest Yuke on November 21st and then in December killing a Catalan town councilman and a busload of police officers.
With the publication of the communique Eta has now admitted to all 23 killings for which it was blamed last year after calling off a fourteen-month truce.
Eta has been blamed for more than 800 deaths in its 33-year drive for an independent Basque homeland in northern Spain and southern France.
The terrorist group also claimed to have carried out a series of attacks including attempts to kill various journalists, placing a bomb in an elevator at a Basque university and bombing attacks against businesses that failed to pay its so called revolutionary tax.
Eta also threatened members of Spain's ruling Popular Party and the main opposition Socialists.
In December the two parties signed an anti-terrorism pact to isolate the moderate but pro-independence Basque Nationalist Party or PNB.
The PNB has been ruling the autonomous Basque region of Spain with a minority government since it was abandoned by Eta's political wing in the summer.
Eta does not want the PNB to cooperate with the two mainstream political parties.
The terrorist group justified its assassination of Socialist Ernest Yuke because he was in favor of stronger ties between his party and the PNB.
The Basque Chief Minister Gwan Jose Ibariche has pledged to call regional elections though Spain's Socialists and the Popular Party have vowed not to form a regional coalition government with the PNB.
Gill Gabrahall for VOA News, Madrid.