US Energy Secretary Bill Richardson has extended an emergency order to keep electricity flowing to California.
The measure will require western suppliers to sell power to the state for at least another week.
As we hear from Michael Sullivan, the official also proposed an energy price cap for the West, but the suggestion had a mixed response from western governors.
The extension of the federal order will require power suppliers in the West to keep sending their surplus electricity to California.
Electrical resources in the West Coast state are stretched to their limit with a looming threat of rolling blackouts.
California's utility companies are not able to generate all the power their customers need, so they have turned to outside suppliers and in the face of rising prices the state's two largest utility firms have sunk more than eight billion dollars in debt.
Suppliers outside California had threatened to cut off the power, afraid that the cash-strapped utilities were not able to pay for it.
The emergency order last week and the extension announced in Denver at a meeting of western governors will keep electricity flowing to California through the middle of next week.
The crisis began three years ago when California imposed a price freeze on its private utility firms to protect consumers while the state deregulates its energy sector, but the lifting of market controls led to wild price fluctuations on the wholesale market.
This was made worse by several factors.
No new generating stations have been built in the state in recent years and some existing generators are offline for repairs.
At the same time California has been growing.
Energy Secretary Bill Richardson says it is a case of demand outpacing supplies.
I know in California alone in the last year electricity demand has increased 13 %.
California's wholesale electricity prices, which had been capped at 250 dollars per megawatt hour in a regulated market, have peaked under deregulation at 1400 dollars per megawatt hour.
With the current price freeze, utilities have been prevented from passing along the increase to consumers.
Wednesday, Energy Secretary Bill Richardson suggested a new price cap for electricity throughout the western states.
Oregon's Governor supports the idea.
Some other western leaders are not convinced that a price cap will solve the problem.
Energy suppliers oppose a cap, saying instead they need incentives to build more generating stations.
Last week federal regulators imposed a so-called soft cap on California, which requires power firms to justify prices above 150 dollars per megawatt hour.
The measure does not however prevent them from charging above that level.
One large utility company, Southern California Edison says it may have to file for bankruptcy unless government officials can offer some relief.
The privately owned company is now three and a half billion dollars in debt.
Consumer activists are skeptical.
They know the utility recently declared a dividend for its stockholders, but Edison's Tom Higgins says the firm can not continue to pay high prices for electricity while keeping prices low for its customers.
Our books are an open matter.
It's not hard for anybody to see.
They can talk to the banks themselves and see that you know, clearly we do n't have the ability to do this.
We do n't print money in the basement.
California's Governor this week warned that intermittent cutoffs of power around the state may begin as early as next week if nothing more is done to alleviate the crisis.
Mike O'Sullivan, VOA News, Los Angeles.