Hello again and welcome, I am David Chadwick.
Israeli helicopter gunships were pressed into service Wednesday, as gun battles with Palestinians erupted on the West Bank near Bethlehem and at the border crossing into Gaza.
At least five Palestinian demonstrators and three Israeli soldiers were killed.
Both sides reported many injured.
Against that bloody backdrop, there were diplomatic efforts to call a ceasefire, but after a Washington meeting with US Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, acting Israeli Foreign Minister Shlomo Ben-Ami said what's happening is not a civilian uprising as the Palestinians claim, but a military confrontation, a mini war, as he put it.
Palestinian negotiator Sayeb Erekat is expected to meet separately with Mrs. Albright and UN Secretary General Kofi Annan, later this week.
Meanwhile, in the Middle East, former Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres met with Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat with whom he once shared the Nobel Peace Prize.
VOA's Laurie Cassman reports there apparently was no breakthrough.
The Peres-Arafat meeting lasted for about two hours, but neither man had any comments on the contents of the discussions.
Earlier in the evening Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak said he was sending Mr. Peres with a message to the Palestinian leader to end the violence now.
For his part, Palestinian officials say Mr. Arafat wanted to call on Mr. Peres to get the Israelis to stop the fighting.
The meeting took place after an afternoon and evening of fierce clashes between the Israeli military and Palestinians in several West Bank towns and Gaza.
Three Israeli soldiers and at least half a dozen Palestinians including one policeman were killed in separate clashes.
After an emergency meeting with his security advisors Wednesday night, Prime Minister Barak warned of a tough response if the violence continues.
The Army will act firmly, he says, but without being drawn into adventurism.
Palestinian media says it has been warned to evacuate its broadcasting facility.
Radio says military commanders have provided Mr. Barak with a list of targets, but his word of caution against what he calls adventurism indicates heightened Israeli sensitivity to international accusations of an exaggerated use of force against the Palestinians.
Chief Palestinian negotiator Sayeb Erekat says he was prevented by Israeli security from leaving his home in Jericho because of the fighting there.
Israeli combat helicopters are reported to have hit a hotel and casino in Jericho and a building of the Palestinian Authority.
Mr. Erekat is due to travel to Washington to meet with US Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and other US officials attempting to win a ceasefire.
Mrs. Albright has already met with Israel's acting Foreign Minister.
Laurie Cassman, VOA News, Jerusalem.
Amnesty International says Israel's military tactics exhibit a pattern of gross human rights violations that could constitute war crimes.
A London-based human rights organizations says Israel's use of tanks and helicopters is far out of proportion to the threat posed by Palestinian stone throwers.
Amnesty also criticized Palestinians for attacking Israeli civilians and said the Palestinian Authority is not doing enough to keep children away.