A leading expert on international finance, Johns Hopkins University economist, Steve Hanky says Yugoslavia's new President Vojislav Kostunica only has a few weeks to reassure financial stability in the dominant republic of Serbia by stabilizing the inflation-prone Yugoslav dinar.
VOA's Barry Wood spoke with Mr. Hanky, who recently returned from several weeks in Europe.
Mr. Hanky says that President Kostunica has only two options for achieving financial stability in Serbia.
He can either abandon the dinar and adopt the German mark as the Yugoslav Republic of Montenegro has done or, Mr. Hanky says, Serbia can adopt a currency board system under which a new currency would be issued under conditions of utmost financial discipline.
I think if Kostunica does not move in a direction decisively within the next month of abandoning the dinar completely or going to a deutsche mark based currency board where we have a foreign governor on the board, the chances for economic unification in the area and economic recovery in Serbia are slim at best.
Mr. Hanky says it's essential that President Kostunica embrace the principle of sound money, something Mr. Hanky believes is as important as the rule of law.
Last week, the new acting head of the Yugoslav Central Bank devalued the dinar, bringing it to 30 to the dollar, compared to the previous official rate of 20.
Mr. Hanky, who regards the dinar as the world's worst currency, says the deutsch mark is becoming the de facto money in the entire Balkan region.
If they use the d mark in Serbia, obviously there would be essentially the same system that they have in Montenegro and if they had a currency board with a foreign national running the thing, like Bosnia, it would essentially mean that they had a unified system was what they have in Montenegro because with Montenegro, they would still have the d mark as legal tender, but they would also use this new currency board money from Serbia and there would be absolutely no problem, and furthermore, from a regional point of view, you 'd have essentially most of the Balkans in a unified currency zone because Bulgaria has a currency board that's d mark based.
Bosnia has a currency board that's d mark based.
Kosovo has a d mark, Montenegro has a d mark.
Mr. Hanky was instrumental in developing the deutsche mark based currency systems throughout the region.
Advisors to Mr. Kostunica say they are considering a currency board system for Serbia.
Barry Wood, VOA News, Washington.