Egypt says runoff elections will be needed for most of the 134 seats contested in last Sunday's second round of parliamentary voting.
Dave Gavlak reports the opposition is not happy at the idea of having to re-fight so many seats.
Fire bombing and rioting by opposition forces greeted the news of the results of Egypt's secondary round of parliamentary elections.
Security officials reported that an independent candidate and 25 supporters have been arrested for throwing molitoff cocktails at a vote counting tent in Shakia province, north east of Cairo.
Supporters of another independent in the Nile Delta city of Mansura, attacked homes and threw stones at a police station and a clinic.
Officials said police arrested 40 people after the incidents.
Meanwhile, security forces also arrested 36 supporters of the outlawed Muslim Brotherhood after election-related violence erupted in two Nile Delta towns of Abulkabir and Sandup.
Officials said the crowd burnt tires and threw stones.
The officials also charged that some Muslim Brotherhood supporters tried to snatch ballot boxes from judges supervising the elections.
Police said they responded by using water cannons and tear gas.
Election officials say Egypt's ruling National Democratic Party and independents each won nine parliamentary seats outright.
The Interior Ministry said that the remaining 116 places will be decided in runoff polls on Saturday between the top two finishers for each seat.
The second round of voting took place in nine governorates or administrative districts in the country.
Egypt is carrying out a three phase election because of a recent decision to have judges monitor polling stations in a bid to avoid vote rigging.
The country does not have enough judicial representatives to hold the one-day election.
None of the 27 nominally independent candidates backed by the banned Muslim Brotherhood won seats in the second phase of voting so far.
The Egyptian government has carried out a vigorous crack-down on the Islamist group, which says it takes peaceful means to bring about an Islamic government.
President Hosni Mubarak's ruling party now controls at least 127 of the 444 parliamentary seats, the Muslim Brotherhood has won six, legal opposition parties control four and other independent candidates have cornered 29, but these numbers are subject to change as some independent winners pledged their loyalty to President Mubarak's party.
The Brotherhood has been two candidates in the three stages of voting.
The group has accused the government of harassing and intimidating its candidates and supporters.
The final stage of voting is scheduled for November 8 and includes the capital Cairo.
The new legislature is expected to convene in mid December.
Dale Gavlack for VOA News, Cairo.