There is a talk of bringing international aid workers back to the refugee camps of West Timor to help thousands of East Timor's refugees stranded there.
The United Nations and the government of Indonesia are trying to work out a plan to do it, as VOA's Breck Ardery reports from the UN.
Namibia's UN Ambassador Martin Angava who recently lead a seven member Security Council delegation to East Timor and to Indonesia, told reporters the plan involves a joint security assessment of conditions in the camps.
What we have proposed and the government of Indonesia is willing to embark on discussions with the UN officials in Jakarta is for UN security experts to be sent to the camps and to assess the situation, and of course, East Timor perhaps as a whole, to assess the situation, together with the Indonesian military and police, and it would be on the basis of their assessment that a decision would then be taken as to whether the humanitarian agents should go back to West Timor or not.
Mr. Angava said the government of Indonesia has increased security in the refugee camps since September.
There are tens of thousands of refugees from East Timor in the camps, but the exact number is in dispute.
International relief workers were evacuated from West Timor after an incident on September 6th, in which three UN aid workers were killed.
The Indonesian government has arrested six people in connection with the murders.
The situation in the refugee camps of West Timor has been an ongoing source of concern for the UN transitional administration in East Timor that is helping to prepare that territory for independence.
Numbers of anti-independence militia groups have been intimidating refugees and even sometimes crossing over into East Timor.
Despite the increased presence of Indonesian security forces in the camps, Ambassador Angava says, there is evidence the militias still have a lot of influence.
Mr. Angava says he and his delegation talked with some refugees who indicated they were reluctant to speak freely, because of the presence of the militias.
Breck Ardery, VOA News, at the United Nations.