Minister of Transportation and Communications
Yeh Chu-lan
-LRB-Chang Ching-jutr. David J. Toman-RRB-
-LRB-photo by Pu Hua-chih-RRB-
Raised in a Hakka village in Miaoli County, Yeh Chu-lan, a graduate of the law department at Fu-Jen Catholic University, is the new Minister of Transportation and Communications, overseeing 120,000 employees and an annual budget of over NT$ 400 billion.
From her early career in advertising, to taking up her late husband's unfulfilled wishes and setting out on the road of political no-return, Yeh Chu-lan has fought impressively, earning wide acclaim.
What makes Yeh, having tasted the sweetness and sorrow of life in equal portions, able to switch roles with such aplomb ?
And where does the soft-spoken yet resolute Yeh find the strength to handle the mounting challenges that life has thrust upon her ?
If not for the self-immolation of her late husband, Cheng Nan-jung, Yeh would not have gotten involved in politics.
Since running for legislator in 1989, Yeh Chu-lan's approach to politics for over a decade has been to " do things for Taiwan. "
With the election of Chen Shui-bian to the presidency, she says she feels that the DPP's transitional mission has been accomplished.
However, at the repeated invitation of both President Chen and Premier Tang Fei to " write history for Taiwanese democracy, " Yeh was moved by their sense of mission and accepted the appointment as new Minister of Transportation and Communications.
Delicate and soft on the outside, strong and tough on the inside, Yeh Chu-lan's confidence and tenacity are well illustrated by her love story.
After commencing university at the age of 18, she met fellow philosophy student Cheng Nan-jung.
Her family's eldest girl, she disregarded her father's objections and insisted on marrying Cheng.
For a short period after graduating from university she returned to teach in Miaoli, but in order to be together with Cheng Nan-jung she returned north to look for work in Taipei.
Starting in an advertising agency as an account assistant, she climbed straight up the ranks to become the highest-ranking female executive in Taiwan's advertising industry, impressing colleagues with her competence and talents.
Far more than a pinch-hitter
From career woman to professional legislator, Yeh's metamorphosis was clear for her colleagues to see.
In " Looking Back, " a documentary on women in Taiwanese politics that was filmed with support from the DPP's Department of Women's Affairs, the late DPP women's affairs director Peng Wan-ju made an acute observation about Yeh :
Although it was her husband's lingering shadow that took her into politics, Yeh's performance has gone beyond the traditional experiences of women in opposition politics, transcending the image of a victimized family member to manifest the autonomy of a female political figure in her own right.
Peng commented : " During her first term as a legislator she acted a lot like a substitute, so every time she questioned officials or addressed a session she would say that such and such was communicated to her in a dream by Cheng Nan-jung.
However, by her second and third terms, she came very much into her own, and she won great respect from women's groups as a defender of women's interests and a champion of the family dependents ' section of the civil law. "
At the recent Yangmingshan seminar for new government officials, Yeh Chu-lan gave a short interview, stressing, " When I first ran for office I was not playing the role of a housewife pinch-hitting for her husband.
I was already an influential female executive in my professional field.
And even though I went into politics due to my husband's sacrifice, I was only willing to do so because I shared his beliefs.
My objective was to fight as a mother for what I hold dearest.
As a public servant, I have always been my own person. "
In over a decade in politics, Yeh Chu-lan's exhaustive efforts on the part of women's groups are worth tallying.
The revision of the family dependents ' section of the civil law was a major undertaking, with a mind-boggling number of legal provisions touching on highly complex issues.
Long-term efforts by women's groups, plus the personal crusades of Yeh and New Party legislator Hsieh Chi-ta, ultimately built momentum in the Legislative Yuan.
Finally, after exhaustive lobbying of the Executive Yuan, the Legislative Yuan passed the revision of certain provisions of the family dependents ' section of the civil law in 1996, providing safeguards for Taiwanese women's prenuptial property rights and child custody rights.
This proved to be the first major step for equal rights between the sexes under law.
Respect for expertise
Variously described by the media as a crusader for justice, a hard worker and an incorruptible political figure, Yeh Chu-lan, known as " mother of the country, " carries considerable seniority within the DPP.
Her aggressive efforts to shore up the Hakka vote for Chen Shui-bian during the presidential election were also crucial to her appointment as Minister of Transportation and Communications.
On the other hand, the media also notes that Yeh has practically no past connections to the Ministry of Transportation and Communications, and the ministry's complex, specialized tasks present her with a steep learning curve.
Addressing these issues, Yeh relates, " The Ministry of Transportation and Communications, in a word, is about ' people, ' making it essentially a huge service network.
With this in mind, setting out from the standpoint of ' people ' is the first task I have set out for myself. "
In addition, she stresses that due to the excessive burdens of the old administration, in which policies were constantly distorted by personal interests and party considerations, perhaps professionals in the Ministry of Transportation and Communications were frustrated at being unable to put their expertise into play.
" People want the new government to quell the old never-ending conflicts over individual interests, and draw a line between public administration and politics.
These are the biggest issues faced by the new cabinet.
Now is the chance to clear out the cobwebs and get off to a new start. "