The Human Resources Industry :
A Cooling Economy Heats Up the Competition
-LRB-Teng Sue-fengtr. by Phil Newell-RRB-
As the global economy enters a down-turn, unemployment, like an already-stretched balloon being filled relentlessly with air, threatens to burst and spoil the dream of economic security.
Last October, Taiwan's unemployment rate surpassed 3 %, and now more than 300,000 people are jobless.
As the economy fades, business increases for human resources companies, so that the condition of the market for HR firms becomes a reflection of the overall employment situation.
It is estimated that these days, an ordinary person will change jobs an average of seven times in a typical 30-40 year working lifespan.
People revolve in a circle whose defining points are employment, job shifts, and unemployment.
So long as people want to find work or change their jobs, the human resources industry has a future.
And the rise of Internet technology has brought a revolution to this market which had changed so little for so long.
Take this job and....
The largest human resources company in Taiwan is the 104 Job Bank.
The firm's name comes from the Taiwan number for directory assistance, and suggests that " To look for a job should be as easy as getting a phone number from the operator. "
The company currently has more than 55,000 jobs and 65,000 job-seekers on file.
104 vice president Steven Su says that there are no reliable statistics for the value of the human resources market, because newspapers refuse to disclose their revenues from classified ads.
But, based on the spaces used and prices charged, it could reach as high as NT$ 10 billion, and even a conservative estimate would be NT$ 3-4 billion, of which NT$ 1 billion would be in the Internet employment services market.
An indicator of how good this market looks comes from the actions of the United Daily News group.
The UDN is one of the investors behind a new employment magazine called Biung, which is designed in the pattern of Japanese employment magazines, and hit the market in October of 2000.
And last year the UDN group also opened a website called " udnjob. "
Why does this venerable media giant look so favorably on the human resources market ?
Johnson Lee, vice-president of UDN-Biung, the company that publishes Biung, who has many years of experience in publishing, says that there is a limit to how many people are reached by classified advertising.
Based on a survey conducted by AC Nielsen, only about 3 % of individuals buy newspapers to read the classified ads.
Moreover, from a firm's point of view, Lee confesses, classified ads are " in fact rather expensive. "
It costs over NT$ 10,000 for an ad of about five centimeters square.
From the newspaper's point of view, classified ads are n't such a hot property either, since most of the profit goes to the middlemen who take the ads.
These limitations to the traditional job hunting formula are unlikely to be resolved in the short term, says Lee.
Lee explains : " Looking at the Japanese experience, the Asahi Shimbun has a daily circulation of about 10 million, but only one page of classified advertising.
Those looking for new jobs rely more on employment magazines. "
The attraction for similar magazines in Taiwan is being helped along by the current fad for things Japanese, and also by changes in how publications are being sold, with convenience stores getting publications on to the shelves much faster than traditional bookstores ever could.
" With changes in the larger environment and the maturing of the market, this is the time to jump in. "
" The economy is in a downturn, but the human resources market always goes against the current, " says Lee.
In Japan, where the " bubble economy " phenomenon has been the worst, there are hundreds of human resources firms competing.
The leading company had an after-tax income last year of US$ 90 million.
Though there have been suggestions that the Internet is already becoming the main way to find employment, Lee contends that " the obstacles to entry are still great " for the ordinary person : You have to have a computer and be online, and you have to know how to find what you are looking for.
When you consider this, print media is still much more convenient.
The big get bigger
The two largest media groups in Taiwan, whose flagship papers are United Daily News and the China Times, began invading the human resources market two years ago, and existing job banks went on a binge of mergers.
For example, Career Magazine, which has more than a decade of experience in the field, founded an e-counterpart, which then merged with the " 37 " employment website-LRB-the resulting site is now called www.Career.com-RRB-to provide even more comprehensive services.
The big may have gotten bigger, but that has n't stopped newcomers from jumping into the fray.
The Southeast Asia Group, which had previously specialized in bringing foreign labor to Taiwan, founded the 1111 Manpower Bank last year, focusing on five main markets : education, civil service, finance, technology, and part-time work for students.
" The interesting thing about the job bank industry is that no rules of the game have yet taken shape for the Internet.
There is much room for change and flexibility, and no one can guess how much the market might change, " says 1111 public relations manager Linda Miao.
Established firms start with the advantage that many people turn to them out of habit.
But their weakness is that they have information overload, with no special features.
" If latecomers want to transcend the old media, they have to try a different approach.
The 1111 Manpower Bank has adopted the strategy of ' surrounding the cities from the countryside, ' and is striving to work with small and medium-sized enterprises, " she explains.
Finding a profitable market niche is something that all the newcomers have in mind.
Last year, Yam Digital Technology and InterServ International got together in a joint venture to establish HRGini, which targets middle-and high-ranking managers in high-tech fields who have incomes in excess of one million NT dollars per year.
Director Janet Chen relates that the company employs state-of-the-art psychological profiling services, with job candidates first being screened by a psychological consultant in one-on-one interviews ; only if the applicant fits the corporate culture will he or she be recommended to the client firm.
Looking to Greater China
One reason that people are so optimistic about the human resources market is the performance of the market leader-104 Job Bank.
It began turning a profit after only one-and-a-half years in operation, and its revenues, which were already over NT$ 100 million by 1999, shot up to NT$ 300 million last year.
The company had only five staff members when they set up shop in 1996 ; now, only four years later, there are 190.
Though 104 has commissions from more firms than any other in the market, they do not dare slack off.
Steven Su says that " we will always have competition from the traditional media like China Times and United Daily News, " because after all, 104 only works through the Internet.
He does not, however, fear the threat from the CTCareer website, which is under the China Times flag, nor is there anything especially novel about the exploitation of both the Internet and magazine formats by the UDN.
Last year Acer Peripherals invested in a combination website and magazine, but they exhausted their capital within three months.
Moreover, Su is skeptical about the survivability of the UDN's Biung, " since, at NT$ 20 per issue, they are selling at a loss. "
But the people at UDN-Biung are very optimistic.
As Johnson Lee says : " Some people try to open the market with a shovel.
We are using a bulldozer. "
The UDN group is undertaking a three-pronged attack to crush their competition : continuing to access the wide readership of newspapers, targeting the high-tech sector through the Internet, and using the magazine format for regional companies with small budgets.
Based on past experience, most companies have used up their employment advertising budgets by year's end, so the market is at a low ebb.
However, when the Chinese New Year passes, many employees, having collected their annual bonuses, want to change jobs, and this is when the market really heats up.
Although the manpower industry focuses on bringing together employers with job-seekers, there is much more to it these days than passing along CVs.
Firms now offer psychological screening, career-suitability evaluations, job training, and reassignment of staff.
Moreover, all these firms are turning their eyes toward the Greater China market.
The 104 Job Bank has been operating beyond Taiwan for some time, having registered its trademark and set up a website in the PRC two years ago-LRB-though it uses 115 in the mainland since that is the number of directory assistance there-RRB-.
HRGini's Janet Chen says that there is a huge potential client base in the US and the Asia-Pacific region for tech-savvy staff.
And Johnson Lee notes : " If Taiwan can become the main axis of human resources management in the Greater China region, not only will this industry not be adversely affected by Taiwan's economic downturn, it will also not be hurt by the large-scale move by Taiwan companies to the PRC. "
As we watch the race heating up between amalgamated veteran firms and ambitious newcomers, let us hope that the real winners turn out to be employers and job-seekers.
p. 107
Magazines are also trying to get a piece of the job-hunting market.
p. 108
The husband has been laid off and there is no money for the children's tuition.
What can one do ?
Women's groups have protested at the Legislative Yuan, calling for more attention to the problem of unemployment.
The government will spend more than NT$ 60 billion on infrastructure projects expected to create more than 40,000 jobs.
-LRB-photo by Hsueh Chi-kuang-RRB-