A Second Spring for Textiles in Taiwan ?
-LRB-Laura Liphotos by Pu Hua-chihtr. by Robert Taylor-RRB-
Early in December the China Textile In-stitute, located at Tucheng in Taipei County, celebrated its 40th anniversary with a dynamic multimedia show.
The CTI's 40-year history has borne witness to the rise and decline of Taiwan's textile industry.
Forty years ago, Taiwan was just crossing the threshold of industrialization.
The textile industry was the darling of the nation, just like the electronics industry today.
Although it has lost its former kudos, the textile industry is still an indispensable part of Taiwan's industrial landscape.
For the last decade, the CTI has been working hand in hand with the industry, quietly sowing the seeds of research and development in many places.
Can those seeds germinate to create a second spring for Taiwan's textile industry ?
As the latest bout of winter weather hits Taiwan, do you want to go up Mt. Hehuan to see the snow ?
You could put on a jacket containing highly insulating melt-spun ceramic fibers.
When the wind sends a fine driving rain slanting across the water, are you still unwilling to forgo the pleasure of sea angling ?
Why not wear some micropore breathable rainwear, with an outer layer which is completely waterproof, but an inner layer which is dry and comfortable on the skin ?
Tencel, made from wood cellulose, has given the lie to the notion that man-made fibers never degrade, and is set to become one of the most important fibers of the coming environmental century ; and the shrimp and crab shells which were once tossed away are now being processed to extract chitin, which when used to treat clothing can inhibit bacteria and mold and prevent unwanted odors, and which can also be used as a dressing for burns which both reduces inflammation and encourages new tissue growth....
What sunset industry ?
Ceramic fibers, stainless steel, shrimp shells-at first glance there seems to be no connection with spinning and weaving.
But in fact these are among the latest products and trends quietly taking shape in the textile industry.
With the rise of new industries such as electronics, aerospace and biotechnology, the areas of application for textile products have expanded ever wider, from being simply coverings for the human body to finding their way up into space and down into the earth.
" There are only sunset products, not sunset industries. "
These words from competitiveness guru Michael Porter hit the nail on the head when it comes to Taiwan's textile industry's current efforts to transform itself into a high-tech, capital-and information-intensive sector.
" Twenty years ago, the polyester uniforms worn by schoolchildren in Taiwan turned dreadfully stiff when you tried to wash them ; cotton clothes shrank ; nylon made your skin red and itchy ; stockings would ladder if you so much as looked at them ; and decent clothes had to be expensively dry cleaned, " recalls CTI president Yao Hsing-chuan.
If clothes in Taiwan today are getting ever lighter, softer, warmer, more wrinkle-free and easier to keep clean, and if their colors are bright, fresh and stain-resistant, this is not thanks to the magic wand wielded by Cinderella's fairy godmother, but is the result of the unceasing efforts towards research, development and upgrading put in by the textile industry over the years.
" Upgrading " has been a word on the lips of everyone in the textile industry in recent years.
But the adverse environment in which the industry has had to operate has made the pace of that upgrading halting and hesitant.
" In the early 1980s, making ready-to-wear garments for export was pretty much a sure-fire money-spinner.
Everything sold like hot cakes, just like electronics today, " says Yao Hsing-chuan.
But around 1987, under strong US pressure, the NT dollar appreciated, and exporters lost their competitive price advantage.
Next, there was a series of rises in land and labor costs.
Garment making is labor-intensive, and the combination of internal and external pressures led to wholesale factory closures.
Many firms moved production to mainland China or Southeast Asia, and Taiwan's remaining domestic textile industry was dramatically reshuffled.
With the departure of the ready-to-wear industry, Taiwan lost its " garment kingdom " status.
But looking from another perspective, the Taiwanese manufacturers who spread all over Southeast Asia, mainland China and Latin America were still very much a force to be reckoned with, and in their new locations they continued to source raw materials and semi-finished goods from Taiwan.
With their support, the upstream portions of the industry-fiber making, yarn spinning, weaving, dyeing, finishing and garment design-were able to stay in Taiwan and prosper.
In September 1998, while the industry was still reeling from the effects of the Asian financial crisis, construction began of the long-planned specialist industrial parks in Yunlin and Changhua Counties.
These were the peak of the large investments made in Taiwan's textile industry over recent years.
But overcapacity and shrinking demand caused by the crisis had hit the industry hard.
By mid-1999 things were looking up again, but then massive power failures in the wake of the 21 September earthquake wiped out nearly NT$ 10 billion worth of textile orders.
Taiwan's biggest currency earner
Nevertheless, thanks to its solid foundations built up over 40 years, the textile industry is still a pillar of Taiwan's economy.
In 1999, Taiwan's textile exports are expected to be worth US$ 14.5 billion or 12 % of the island's total exports, behind only electronics-LRB-17.6 %-RRB-and ITtelecom products-LRB-12.3 %-RRB-.
Moreover, after deducting the cost of imported raw materials etc., the textile industry is Taiwan's biggest foreign currency earner, bringing in over US$ 10 billion each year.
For instance, polyester is the most widely used man-made fiber, and little Taiwan produces no less than 17 % of the total worldwide supply, making it the largest supplier.
The island's total production of man-made fibers ranks third globally, behind the USA and mainland China.
At present, the largest category among Taiwan's textile exports is finished cloth, which accounts for more than 60 % of Taiwan's textile exports by value.
" The textile industry has deep roots in Taiwan, and there are many processes to be gone through from the fiber to the finished garment.
Thus there are many key technologies which can be developed, and the industry can sustain a large workforce. "
CTI acting vice-president Wu Chung-fu observes that the advanced countries still devote substantial efforts to developing textile technologies, and naturally this is something Taiwan should not lightly give up.
We ca n't give it up, but neither can we rest on our laurels.
With Southeast Asia and mainland China catching up fast, Taiwan's textile industry will only have a future if it can quickly transform itself and develop towards high-tech products.
The CTI, which a decade ago began a timely change in its role to one of a specialist R&D center working in partnership with firms, has become the leading R&D center for Taiwan's several thousand textile industry companies.
The development of new " nylon 66 " fibers is a case in point.
Grace Kuo, a vice-president at Ta Ching Hwa Enterprise Co.
-LRB-TCH-RRB-, as yet the only company in Taiwan to manufacture nylon 66 filament, recounts that ten years ago her husband and a group of friends who had worked many years at Formosa Chemicals and Fiber Corporation wanted to set up in business for themselves.
At that time, a huge amount of nylon 66 fiber-600 tonnes per month-was used by the local textile industry in the manufacture of specialty apparel such as women's tights, swimwear and underwear.
But Taiwan had no manufacturing capability in the fiber, and relied entirely on imports.
This aroused their interest in entering the field.
David and Goliath
Grace Kuo comments that nylon 66 was a new fiber with good elasticity, high strength and a soft, bulky feel, along with good resistance to ultraviolet light.
Adding just 15 to 20 % of nylon 66 to a fabric transforms it, making it thoroughly suited to modern-day demands for " healthy, comfortable " clothing.
The big international manufacturers had realized this and adopted an oligarchic strategy : as well as making it difficult for others to obtain the raw materials, they were very careful not to reveal any of their manufacturing know-how.
But thanks to the expertise the TCH team had built up over many years in the textile fibers field, within the first year after the company was set up they succeeded in drawing filaments from nylon 66 granules.
" As soon as we did that, Dupont cut their prices, hoping to squeeze us right out of the market, " says Grace Kuo with a smile.
But after going head-to-head with TCH for several years, Dupont realized how resilient the company was, and since then the two firms have begun to cooperate.
Currently, TCH is the world's fifth-largest manufacturer of nylon 66 filament, supplying 8 % of the global market.
It stands as another example of a Taiwanese company successfully taking on the big boys in international markets.
The original use of nylon 66 was in tights and swimwear, but these are far from being the only applications for such a superior new fiber.
But because the filaments are so thin-LRB-only half the thickness of a human hair-RRB-, they can easily break at the yarn spinning stage, and at the dyeing stage the yarn absorbs only the smallest dye molecules.
Hence firms around the world are still feeling their way forward on how to use this fiber.
For this reason, TCH approached the CTI to conduct a series of cooperative development projects.
To date they have successfully developed various new yarns blended from nylon 66 and other fibers such as acrylic or polyester, and have staged numerous seminars and visited many firms to teach users how to weave and dye the new fabrics and how to design for them.
Why go to such lengths to popularize new fibers ?
Grace Kuo says the textile industry today needs to take a lead from the electronics industry, and constantly strive for innovation : " What consumer today does n't already have a wardrobe full of clothes ?
If you want to persuade her to spend, you have to keep putting out products which look novel at the first glance and feel great at the first touch.
Only then can you create demand and stimulate consumption, " she avers.
Behind the quest for innovation and change, there needs to be a great deal of R&D work, along with a keen nose for the market.
But 95 % of Taiwan's textile firms are small or medium-sized enterprises.
They do not have the facilities or staff to carry on R&D, and they lack the perspective to take a broad view of worldwide trends.
Hence in the upgrading process, organizations like the CTI will play an increasingly important role.
Flexibility v. perfectionism
However, G-Fun Industrial Corporation general manager Tsai Chiu-hsiung, who worked at the CTI for many years before setting up in business for himself in late 1998, has had a different experience.
While at the CTI, Tsai headed a project to develop the technology for making breathable waterproof fabrics.
At that time, he says, few manufacturers in Taiwan were both interested in the technology and competent to apply it.
Later, when his team had developed the process, many firms expressed an interest.
But once they had acquired the technology, many lost money or even went out of business-the results were far from ideal.
" At that time I felt very frustrated.
It was clearly a good process, but after buying the technology for a nominal sum, many companies did n't value it, " says Tsai Chiu-hsiung.
On the one hand, the market for breathable waterproof fabrics was not yet mature, and too many companies entering all at once knocked the bottom out of the market ; on the other, manufacturers in Taiwan still lack the concept of dedicating production equipment to one product.
For fear of putting all their eggs in one basket, many firms are in the habit of producing whatever they can get orders for : today it may be waterproof fabric, tomorrow cloth for tarpaulins, and next month purses.
Their product mix is very varied, with frequent switching.
This makes quality control difficult, so that when firms are faced with a technically demanding product, defects may easily arise.
Worse, they are often unable even to identify the cause.
" ' Flexibility ' helps SMEs survive in difficult times, but it is not conducive to the perfectionist attitudes needed when upgrading. "
Tsai Chiu-hsiung, who urges companies to " know when to give things up, " has now been in business for himself for a year, and his is the only firm in Taiwan which specializes in applying breathable waterproof coatings to fabrics.
With more orders than he can handle, he is now preparing to build a new factory at Touliu in Yunlin County.
G-Fun's micropore breathable coating is a compound containing special water-soluble granules which create tiny pores in the fabric surface.
Sweat can evaporate through these pores without being absorbed by the fabric, improving comfort compared with traditional hydrophilic fabrics which when worn in the rain start sticking to the body after a time.
G-Fun is also co-operating with the CTI to develop waterproof fabrics with both micropore and hydrophilic characteristics.
At present, most of the company's orders come from Europe and the USA, and are made into upmarket leisurewear such as climbing or golf apparel which sells for as much as NT$ 8,000 per garment.
Like TCH, G-Fun also hopes its products can help Taiwan's textile industry upgrade.
" The 21st century will be an age of leisure, and Taiwanese sport and leisurewear fabrics have long held first place worldwide.
If they can all be given better breathability and water resistance, this will greatly increase their added value, " says Tsai Chiu-hsiung.
Fabrics treated by G-Fun are currently a third cheaper than the same grades of fabric from Japan, and Tsai hopes he can attract Taiwanese firms to make greater use of them.
A short-term view
Another type of new fabric which is in great demand is wicking fabric, based on fibers with a special cross-section.
The leading volume producer of wicking fibers in Taiwan is Chung Shing Textile Company.
Its president, William Shang, explains that conventional fibers have a round cross-section, but by changing the fibers ' physical properties it is possible to produce them with various cross-sectional profiles such as X or Y shapes, which create capillaries along the fibers.
These not only quickly wick sweat away from the skin, but also regulate body temperature and allow garments to dry quickly after washing.
However, the fibers ' special properties can easily be destroyed in the various processes they go through such as yarn spinning, weaving, dyeing and finishing, so that making finished garments requires a high degree of technical sophistication.
Chung Shing has launched a fabric named Coolplus to compete with Dupont's equivalent product, Coolmax.
" Developing new fibers is the most important element in upgrading the textile industry, " says Shang.
However, he acknowledges that although many new products are being developed in Taiwan, on closer inspection they are all copies of products first developed elsewhere, and so fall some way short of real innovation.
But whereas it used to take Taiwanese companies several years of trial and error to figure out how to make such products, the gap between them and their European and American competitors is growing ever smaller.
When new products appear overseas it now only takes Taiwan two to three years to bring out an equivalent.
William Shang observes that when most Taiwanese firms see something new at an overseas exhibition they will bring back a sample, inspect it under a high-powered microscope to determine the weaving method and have it chemically analyzed to find out the composition of the fibers and finishing chemicals.
With Taiwan's long years of manufacturing experience, it is then not difficult to reproduce the product with 70-80 % accuracy.
However, Shang does not see this as a viable long-term strategy.
" The best strategy for the long-term is still to put more effort into basic scientific research, " he says.
For example, he read in Time magazine that because spiders produce the best natural fibers in the world, being both lustrous and resilient, US scientists transferred spider genes into silkworms to produce " super silkworms. "
The technique succeeded, but because the Americans were not very interested in producing clothing textiles, they did not commercialize it.
When it comes to this kind of combination of lateral thinking and advanced technology, Taiwan still has some way to go.
Shang, currently chairman of the CTI's technology committee, is well aware of where the obstacle to R&D lies : " Innovative ideas take time to mature, and you have to accept a high degree of uncertainty.
But our environment does not allow this. "
He notes that industries in Taiwan always pursue short-term profits, so there is never much interest in technologies which are too forward-looking and can not immediately produce saleable products.
As one of 18 industrial institutes under the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the CTI has some state funding.
But with ever greater budgetary constraints and pressure to cover its own costs, development projects mostly concentrate on firms ' current needs, and stress the sales and profit they generate.
Under such circumstances, epoch-making innovations are unlikely to emerge.
Standardizing colors
Because innovation is so hard to achieve, the highly innovative Sinocolor Book color reference system, which was launched at the CTI's 40th anniversary celebration, has been greeted with great admiration by many.
The system's inventor, Hsu Yun-peng, only had a junior high school education, but had researched color matching for 18 years in a dyeing factory.
Discovering that imported color matching software was of little practical use, Hsu, who did n't know a word of English, taught himself to program and wrote an improved version of the software.
Writing color matching software earned Hsu Yun-peng a lot of money, but this was not his main purpose.
His real aim was to produce a color reference system that was genuinely easy to use, to overcome the lack of color standardization which had long plagued the dyeing industry.
To pursue this goal he quit his job, moved to the suburbs of Kuishan in Taoyuan County, and began to spend 18 hours a day studying the problem.
Quite apart from the difficulties of keeping his family fed, he often was n't even sure how old his three children were and what year of school they were in.
Finally he used a three-dimensional model to create a regularly graded, finely differentiated color reference system covering 20,000 colors, each with clear " color coordinates. "
These features are unmatched by any of the systems currently in common use worldwide, which only define up to 3,000 colors.
The textile industry's efforts to upgrade are gradually showing some results, but looking at the situation overall, CTI president Yao Hsing-chuan is still somewhat worried.
He comments that the majority of companies still have the traditional mindset of pursuing low-cost, high-volume production.
Taiwan is the world's third biggest producer of man-made fibers, but it only produces a small range of mass-market fibers for apparel fabrics, to the almost total neglect of the hundred or so other high-added-value, special fibers on the market such as high-strength fibers for bullet-proof fabrics, elastic fibers or superalloy aerospace fibers.
Again, when it comes Taiwan's biggest export item, finished fabrics, these too are largely limited to apparel fabrics, with few companies getting involved in other areas despite their potential.
For instance, Taiwan has been struck by many landslides in recent years, and requires large quantities of geotextiles-heavy-grade textiles laid under or around civil engineering structures to prevent erosion by groundwater movement.
The currently planned high-speed rail system alone is expected to require several million yards of geotextiles.
But Taiwanese companies are inexperienced in this area, and sending products overseas for quality certification tests is time consuming and complicated, so local companies can only stand and watch as the entire market goes to imported products.
Bullet-proof fabrics ?
Geotextiles ?
Are these part of the textile industry ?
Indeed they are.
Yao Hsing-chuan says that textile industry products have three main fields of application : apparel, furnishings and industrial.
At present, over 95 % by value of ROC textile industry output is accounted for by apparel products with low added value.
By contrast, in the USA textiles for clothing and industrial applications are produced in equal quantities, and industrial textiles include a wide variety of different products, many of which are technically demanding and command profit margins with which most apparel products can not compare.
Hence the CTI has already made it one of its major goals to encourage firms to shift their orientation towards industrial textiles.
The development of stainless-steel fibers is one success story in this area.
From false teeth to space suits
Dotted among the paddy fields of Taichung County's Houli Rural Township are many metal-clad buildings which house a variety of factories producing such products as plastics, furniture and electronic components.
Among them is King's Metal Fiber Technologies Company, the only firm in Taiwan which draws fibers from stainless steel.
King's president Rocky Chang is known to all as Dr. Chang, and is indeed still a practicing dentist.
A decade or so ago, while he was studying in Australia, he developed an interest in metallurgy, and hoped to develop the use of metals in tooth implants.
Later he learned that stainless steels have an enormously wide range of applications in the textiles, industrial and military fields.
But he could not find a partner to work with in Australia, so he returned to Taiwan and began collaborating with the CTI.
Today, not only is King's on a par with the large overseas manufacturers in terms of filament drawing technology, but to assist local downstream manufacturers in using its products, it has also set up metal fiber yarn spinning and fabric weaving plants, and is making efforts in the area of nonwoven fabrics.
Stroking the silver-gray ringlets which are twice as fine as human hair, Chang says that these soft, flexible fibers of high-grade steel can not only make fashion fabrics glisten with a mysterious modern sheen suitable for a millennium party, but-thanks to metals ' outstanding capacity to shield and conduct electromagnetic waves, and their ability to withstand high temperatures and acid or caustic environments-they also have a wide range of applications in many industries.
For instance, at a recent international furniture show in Taipei, King's exhibited sound insulating panels containing metal fibers, which hi-fi buffs can install to produce an excellent sound studio effect.
Cellphone cases of metal fabric can shield users from the electromagnetic radiation the phones produce ; and in the clean rooms of silicon wafer fabs, where dust particles attracted by static electricity on clothing are the biggest bugbear, there is a host of applications for anti-static fabrics, from workers ' clothing and footwear to trolleys, conveyor belts and wall coverings.
Rocky Chang says that before King's started producing metal fibers, the market was divided up between a few foreign companies which charged high prices and produced only small quantities of products.
Furthermore, when Taiwanese users had difficulties with production they did not know who to turn to for help.
Looking into the future, Chang hopes that as a key material, stainless steel fiber can have a " locomotive " effect, encouraging various industries in Taiwan to develop a range of different products.
Time to get weaving
Developing industrial textiles requires an understanding of different industries ' needs, and also requires new channels of distribution.
For instance, cellphone cases have to be sold through electronic goods shops, while car airbags have to be sold into automotive distribution channels.
For entrepreneurs who have previously only sold into the clothing trade, this is a challenge.
How to promote " cross-industry cooperation, " and get people in the textile industry to look beyond their own industry's boundaries and become effective partners for the electronics, construction, medical supplies and other industries is the next task for the CTI to tackle.
As CTI president Yao Hsing-chuan observes, what has enabled Taiwan's textile industry to survive through the ups and downs of its history is the highly motivated attitude of its entrepreneurs.
It is this ambition which is the best guarantee of the industry creating a second spring.
p. 30
An unusual fashion show at the China Textile Institute's 40th anniversary celebration : the focus is not on showing fashionable new styles, but on introducing the latest fruits of textile product development in the ROC.
The stainless steel fibers in the fabrics worn by these models have potential applications not only in avant-garde fashions, but also in industrial conveyor belts and even space suits.
p. 32
Eight years ago, this was just a textile testing center with a handful of single-storey buildings and a staff of less than 20.
But president Yao Hsing-chuan-LRB-left-RRB-, has single-handedly transformed it into today's China Textiles Institute, with a staff of nearly 300.
With him is Ho Yu-lan, formerly director of the Taiwan Textile Federation and now consultant to the CTI.
p. 34
The CTI has an artificial climate chamber which can simulate all kinds of weather conditions such as frost and rain.
Our picture shows members of an ROC mountaineering team testing the warmth and anti-condensation qualities of their clothing before setting out to tackle Mt. Everest.
-LRB-courtesy of CTI-RRB-
p. 35
Guess what these lads are doing ?
They are playing a " computer handle test " game : after carefully feeling a numbered cloth sample they score it for handle-LRB-crispness, drape, pliability, etc.-RRB-
and then compare their scores with those given by the computer.
Many are surprised to find how different the results are !
p. 36
This high-grade fabric is completely waterproof, yet breathes to allow sweat to evaporate.
It can be made into military or police rainwear and horse blankets, and is also in great demand in advanced countries for leisure wear.
The picture at left shows high-value leisure apparel ; above, the fabric coating process.
p. 37
Various kinds of protective fabrics find a wide range of applications in industry.
The picture above shows articles made by the " fully fashioned " knitting method, which vastly increases their strength and resilience, making them suitable for crash helmet liners, protective lagging for water pipes, climbing ropes and more.
At right, cut-resistant gloves containing stainless steel fibers.
They cost much less than imported products, but are just as effective.
p. 37
The development of new fibers with various properties or special feel can help the industry upgrade.
At left we see soft, flexible yarns spun from high-grade stainless steel ; below, chitin, which can be drawn into thread or ground into powder to make health food.
p. 38
Hsu Yun-peng built on his solid practical grounding to not only develop color matching software which is widely used in Taiwan, but also compile the Sinocolor Book color reference system covering 20,000 colors.
Its recent launch was a big event for Taiwan's textile industry.
p. 39
Practicing dentist Rocky Chang, known to all as " Dr. Chang, " has collaborated with the CTI to develop yarn spinning and fabric weaving technologies for metal fibers, thus opening up a new field for the ROC textile industry.