Taiwan Toils with Double Trouble--Forest Fires Burn and Oil Spill Bubbles
-LRB-Chang Chin-jutr. by David Mayer-RRB-
With the ruling and opposition parties slugging it out over the Fourth Nuclear Power Plant, a cargo ship ran quietly aground in mid-January just offshore from the Lungkeng Ecological Protection Area in Kenting National Park.
Preliminary containment of the resulting oil spill was not achieved until late February.
In the meantime, Taiwan has been hit by a rash of forest fires.
Clearly, the activities of man are becoming increasingly destructive of nature.
Can we expect to go on forever wreaking havoc on the earth without inviting a backlash from Mother Nature ?
The armed forces dispatched thousands of soldiers to deal with the oil spill at Lungkeng, located at the southern tip of Taiwan, and the first phase of the cleanup was completed on February 16 with the removal of over 300 tons of oil from the shore.
The second phase entails cleaning the uplifted coral seashore and restoring the environment of the intertidal zone.
The problem is that efforts to clean up the oil could cause great damage to the complex ecology of the coral shoreline and destroy the beauty of the intertidal zone.
How to go about undoing the environmental destruction that has already occurred ?
Due to a lack of comprehensive studies, the local environment in Lungkeng is not sufficiently understood.
With scholars still in the midst of research, it has been impossible to take concrete action.
The oil spill occurred at about 5 p.m. on January 14 when the Greek freighter MV Amorgos carrying ore from India to the port of Nantong in mainland China ran aground about a kilometer off the cape at Oluanpi.
A thousand tons of fuel oil began pouring through the ship's torn hull.
The disaster has hit the uplifted coral at Lungkeng the hardest.
The ocean waves brought the oil to shore, making a mess of the beautiful coral coastline, slathering shellfish and aquatic plants, and filling the air with a petroleum stench.
Taiwanese society, caught up in the furor over the nuclear power plant up north, took little immediate notice of the accident.
The shipowner did n't stop up the leaking hull of the MV Amorgos until the end of January.
He went through a shipping agent in Taiwan to hire local residents in Lungkeng to clean up the shoreline, but the oil slick had mucked up a three-kilometer stretch of strikingly beautiful blue waters, throwing a pall over the local tourism and fishing industries.
After days of bitter complaints, aggrieved residents finally got the attention of the news media.
On February 7, three weeks after the spill, the Environmental Protection Administration formed an emergency task force, and EPA chief Edgar Lin headed south to inspect the site.
On February 10, Premier Chang Chun-hsiung and several other high-ranking government officials boarded a military helicopter for an aerial survey of the spill, and the premier instructed the Ministry of Transportation and Communications and the Ministry of National Defense to get the oil cleaned up within 30 working days.
The EPA worked up an estimate of the cost of cleanup, ship removal, and reparations to fishermen, and notified both the shipowner and the insurance company.
The ship's captain and other ship officers had to post bond before they were allowed to leave Taiwan.
In addition to these emergency measures, the EPA has also been working to draft :-LRB-1-RRB-a set of guidelines for establishing task forces to deal with major maritime environmental disasters ; and-LRB-2-RRB-an emergency response plan for maritime oil spills.
Draft versions of both these documents will be presented to the cabinet as soon as possible.
The cabinet will request the Legislative Yuan to authorize an extraordinary budget allocation to cover the purchase of oil containment booms, sorbents, helicopters, and other equipment needed for responding to oil spills.
The problem, however, is that authorities did not respond in the critical first few hours and days following the spill.
This failure focused renewed attention on poor coordination between the central and local governments.
In a public opinion poll, nearly 70 % of respondents indicated dissatisfaction with the government's handling of the oil spill.
With today's huge volume of international shipping, oil spills are becoming a serious problem.
Although the recent spill in Taiwan was small in comparison with 10,000-ton spills that have occurred elsewhere, the situation here is worrisome because, as a petroleum importer, oil tankers ply the waters around our island in swarms.
There is no telling when the next spill might happen.
While acknowledging the necessity of drafting emergency response plans, academics argue that an even more pressing task facing the government is to catalog Taiwan's marine resources.
Otherwise, they say, it may be impossible to press reparation claims against shipping companies that accurately reflect the extent of damages.
The lack of a detailed understanding of the Lungkeng ecology presents a perfect case in point.
Similarly, after the recent spate of forest fires in central and southern Taiwan, scholars have again reacted by calling on the government to begin as soon as possible with ongoing studies of Taiwan's forest habitats.
Investigations have shown that most of the recent forest fires plaguing Taiwan have been caused by campfires.
Although the recent fires have been put out fairly quickly, a blaze on Snow Mountain caused alarm when it burned near a stand of rare Chinese hemlock as well as streams that are home to the Formosan landlocked salmon, which is regarded as a national treasure.
Forestry service officials indicate that none of the recent blazes has caused major damage, but the Council of Agriculture has instructed the various forestry districts to step up patrols to keep man-made forest fires from happening again and again.
Chao Jung-tai, a researcher at Taiwan Forestry Research Institute, feels that the public ought to take the forest fires and the oil spill in Lungkeng as warnings of the urgent need to understand the environment in which we live.
For example, Chao asks : What are the scientific criteria for deciding when a forest fire has caused enough damage to require rehabilitation of the environment afterwards ?
Under what circumstances is it okay to let the environment recover on its own ?
These questions require ongoing monitoring and research before objective criteria can be developed and environmental rehabilitation efforts can be carried out properly.
Once an environment that has taken shape over millions of years is destroyed, it is usually beyond man's ability to undo the damage.
Efforts to that end often prove fruitless.
It is time to start devoting serious thought to the question of how to preserve the beauty of the island we call home.
p. 67
Fuel oil pouring from the torn hull of the MV Amorgos has sullied the beautiful blue waters off the southern tip of Taiwan.
Living on an island, the people of Taiwan face an urgent need to find a way to prevent pollution of their coastal waters.
-LRB-photo by Lin Hsiu-ming, United Daily News-RRB-