A Master of Ink and Stone
Calligrapher and Seal-Carver Wang Chiang-wei
-LRB-Tsai Wen-tingphotos by Hsueh Chi-kuangtr. by Christopher MacDonald-RRB-
The calligrapher and seal-carver Wang Chuang-wei spent a lifetime working assiduously at his craft, producing a body of work in which every single stroke and cut looks perfect.
Wang passed away three years ago, and this January a collection of 50 works, spanning every period of Wang's life, went on display at the National Palace Museum in Taipei.
In recent years the museum, primarily known for its collection of treasures from the palaces of Ming and Qing dynasty China, has broadened its remit and begun acquiring newly excavated artifacts as well as 20th century calligraphy and painting-including works by such luminaries as Chang Ta-chien, Qi Baishi, Yu Yo-jen and Tai Ching-nung.
To those who knew him, the late calligrapher and seal-carver Wang Chuang-wei was simply " Old Chuang. "
He liked a drink, as his friends will testify, and stories of his drinking exploits are still told with relish.
Visitors to Wang's home were generally greeted with something stronger than a cup of tea, and Wang, who claimed that alcohol stimulated the creative juices-LRB-giving the artist a sense of clarity and purpose-RRB-once penned the following couplet : Knocking back drink makes the poetry flowA glass or two helps you find the right phrase.
Hsueh Chih-yang, who studied under Wang and is a master in his own right, recalls how Wang liked to open a bottle at lunchtime, and in fact produced much of his best work when he was half-cut.
Last of the scholar-artists
Wang's son Wang Ta-chih, who heads the history of art department at Chinese Culture University's graduate school of history, remembers that when he was small he really dreaded his dad reciting poetry.
Oftentimes the elder Wang ended up blubbering, before wiping away his tears and declaring : " Great poem ! "
But Wang Ta-chih credits his father for instilling in him a love of literature, and encouraging him to become proficient in traditional Chinese disciplines such as painting, chess, woodwind music and martial arts.
Says the younger Wang : " For me, my father was one of the last generation of Chinese scholar-artists ! "
Wang Chuang-wei was born in Hebei Province in 1909, into an educated family-his father Wang Yi-pin was the last xiucai scholar-official of the Qing dynasty-LRB-1644-1911-RRB-.
But the son had no wish to become an official, and instead opted to spend his days at home, freely soaking up the atmosphere of art and culture.
He began tracing characters at age six, under his father's direction, and when he was 12 he started learning how to carve seals.
His grandfather worked in Beijing, and every year brought back valuable calligraphic artifacts that he had purchased there.
Young Wang thus became familiar, from an early age, with the works and implements of prominent calligraphers from throughout the land.
At an age when other children were still busy at their games, Wang used to bury himself among books, for hours on end, in the family library.
Like all Chinese children, Wang began by imitating the firm and well-formed calligraphy of Yan Zhenqing.
He went on to learn the styles of many other masters of the art, progressing in his teens to the running script and grass script of the ancient master Wang Xizhi, which became central to his own calligraphic style.
Love and war
At age 20 Wang went to Beiping-LRB-as Beijing was then called-RRB-to study at the Jinghua School of Art, and like many other young Chinese at that time-when the cultures of East and West were first coming into close contact-he immersed himself in Western culture, learning all he could about Western painting, sculpture, film and literature.
However, perhaps due to his familiarity with what was best in Chinese art, Wang did n't take this interest in Western art any further.
Instead he opted for the life of the true Chinese man of letters.
In 1937, following the Marco Polo Bridge Incident, Japan occupied Beiping and launched a full-scale invasion of China.
Newly betrothed, and with the sterling qualities of a typical northern lad, Wang enlisted in the army.
For three months he marched with an expeditionary force to the malaria-infested jungles of Burma, and then on to India, before making a safe return.
His young bride Chang Ming-sui, daughter of General Chang Jun-sheng, was of a similarly resolute character.
Unable to get news of Wang's whereabouts she took herself, along with another young woman-LRB-who brought her baby son and was also seeking her husband-RRB-from Jiangxi Province to China's southwest.
Now 87 years of age, Chang Ming-sui says : " Many years later I saw what he had written in his diary back then.
Though he had no news of me whatsoever, he guessed correctly that I would n't wait in the rear area with the other military families, and would n't go back to my parents ' home either.
I'm still moved when I think how well he knew me. "
For Chang, Wang was the kind of man who considered things in depth but did n't express his thoughts openly.
" Grown man "
After moving to the unoccupied zone, Wang began carving seals in his spare time to support himself.
It was at this time that Wang adopted the moniker " Chuang-wei, " or " making it as a grown man "-an ironic nod to the Han dynasty writer Yang Xiong who once said : " Carving seals is boy's work, it's not for grown men. "
Wang Chuang-wei is how he has been known ever since, and to this day, few know that his original name was Wang Yuan-feng.
According to Hsueh Ping-nan, one of seven main disciples of the " Wang School " of seal carving, the art combines the skills of calligraphy, composition and carving, requiring not only a deep familiarity with ancient forms of script but also the ability to stretch and compress characters so as to fit them, neatly and cleverly, onto the compact head of a seal stone.
As an authority in the study of written characters, Wang was highly knowledgeable about different styles of seal script.
The 500 or so seals of his displayed in the collection Yuzhao Shanfang Yinxuan show how complete his mastery of the form was, from ancient guxi seals of state, to the qinyin and hanyin seals of the Qin and Han dynasties, and the styles of the oracle-bone-script and wanzhe schools.
From the horizontal and vertical strokes of hanyin script, to the snaky lines of small seal script, Wang performed all with equal facility.
Hsueh Ping-nan recalls how he once watched Wang carving seals in his study, first giving careful thought to the layout and making draft after draft on paper.
Having settled on a layout, he would then carve the seal in one go, using the knife with fluid ease.
Thus it was that he could fill the confined space on a seal with expansive, forceful-looking characters.
What people admired most about Wang was his ability to wield the knife like a writing brush, carving lines that seemed free and flowing.
Every stroke was made with one cut of the blade-in contrast to most seal carvers who need two cuts to achieve the appearance of a brush stroke.
This was especially so of his signature mark on the side of the seal.
Careful examination of Wang's seals shows that the running script of the signature mark is carved with every bit as much grace and fluidity as if done by brush and ink, but augmented by the hardness that is intrinsic to stone inscriptions.
For individuality of seal-carving style, Wang ranks only behind the likes of Wu Chang-shuo and Qi Baishi
The Western artistic concepts that Wang absorbed in his youth opened his mind to creative possibilities within the tradition.
For example, he introduced unconventional themes for the knobs that he carved for his seals.
Chang Ming-sui picks up one tiny seal, half the length of a little finger, on which the knob is a vividly carved image of a dragon coiled around two seashells.
Says Chang : " This is one he made in Chongqing.
When I first saw it I wondered how anyone could carve something like that. "
Chang is herself an accomplished carver of seal knobs, and she knows the details and dates of all Wang's seals and calligraphies.
Meeting her one ca n't help but feel that as his partner and soulmate, Chang must have had a lot to do with Wang's success as an artist, and the long and happy life that he enjoyed.
Something new, something old
Wang passed away in his sleep at the ripe old age of 90, and it is said in art circles that he died with a smile on his face.
His accomplishments as a calligrapher can be divided into several different phases of his life.
In Chongqing he came to know the well-known calligrapher Shen Yinmo, and it was under Shen's direction that he began to expand his repertoire beyond the styles of the 3rd to 9th centuries, drawing on the natural elegance of noted calligraphers such as Zhao Mengfu-LRB-1254-1322-RRB-and Wen Zhengming-LRB-1470-1559-RRB-, to develop a neat, full style, with every character a beauty.
Ho Chuan-hsing, deputy researcher at the calligraphy and painting department of the National Palace Museum, explains that the art of Chinese calligraphy can broadly be divided into two main branches : the nantie, or Southern style, in which beauty of form is emphasized, and the more rugged beibei or Northern style.
Wang Chuang-wei established his style relatively early, and up until he was in his forties his works were characterized by the smooth, fluid forms of the nantie style.
However, Wang himself was alert to the risk of his calligraphy becoming over-refined, and he began incorporating the robustness of the beibei style into his brushwork, aiming for a style that was more " raw and intense. "
As a result, his calligraphy came to combine fluid grace with a core of doughty toughness.
It was a style well suited to the kind of man he was : a bluff northerner with the perfectionist's approach to art.
When he was in his fifties Wang came to regard " writing characters " as a form of painting, and he began to innovate and experiment with the art.
For example, he created " multiple-shadow " calligraphy, in which characters were painted in five overlapping layers using different consistencies of ink.
He tried using deliberately crumpled paper to produce a mottled effect with the ink, and worked on a blurring effect, achieved by briefly dousing a freshly painted silk scroll in water.
Despite the interest generated among calligraphers by these innovations, Wang was more suited by temperament to the established forms, and he eventually turned back to ancients for inspiration.
He studied in detail the characters on the manuscripts and artifacts, dating back to the first millennium BC, that were at that time being unearthed at Mawangdui and other sites in mainland China, and began absorbing their distinctive forms into his own calligraphic style.
He also made poems and paired-couplets out of the ancient inscriptions, pioneering a personal " something new from something old " approach.
" During this period his running script was no longer as lean as it had been, " says Ho Chuan-hsing.
" It began slanting rightwards and spreading out a little.
Overall, his characters became more free and unconstrained, with swooping spaces where the brush was running dry of ink.
He had well and truly shaken off the earlier fixation with exquisite perfection. "
Lin Po-ting, deputy director of the National Palace Museum, who once studied under Wang at National Taiwan Normal University, says : " Wang Chuang-wei drew on traditional styles, but not in a cliched way.
In studying the calligraphy of ancient times he broke through limitations, one after another, so endowing his calligraphy with a simple, raw life-force. "
It was during this period that Wang's calligraphic work reached its pinnacle.
Lifelong learner
Throughout his creative life Wang loved to drink, and he also loved books.
He was always reading, he liked buying and talking about books, and he was happy to make the acquaintance of other readers.
When students or friends of his traveled to Japan he used to ask them to bring back works on Japanese calligraphy, or books and magazines from mainland China.
This love of reading did n't wane at all in his later years, and when he found his memory failing he carved himself a seal with the exhortatory motto : " The more you forget the more you need to read. "
Wang, with his vast erudition and deep knowledge of painting, calligraphy, and inscriptions, was often sought out for his views by others in the field of art and culture.
For example, collectors often turned to Wang for an explanation of the deliberately obscure dedications that the great Chang Ta-chien like to write on his paintings.
Sometimes he would have a dig at his students, urging them to work harder in the future.
Huang Tien-tsai, who owns a collection of seals made by literati down the ages, recalls how he once asked Wang to re-inscribe an old seal Huang had picked up on an antiques stall.
Wang first asked : " Are you sure you want the original inscription ground off ? "
Without thinking twice about it, Huang said yes.
Only when Huang came to collect it did Wang tell him that the re-inscribed seal, which originally read : " Roaming in nature makes the man, " formerly belonged to the late-Qing reformer Kang Youwei.
Huang was left fuming.
Forgetting the self
When he was in his sixties Wang began to use the style names Jianzhai-LRB-" steadily more abstinent "-RRB-and Jiansou-LRB-" steadily older "-RRB-, and carved a seal for himself with the inscription : " Steadily older and more mature, steadily more mature and more detached, steadily more detached and closer to what is plain and natural. "
During his fifties he had passed through a period of experimentation and innovation, " being different for the sake of it, " but now he returned to the traditional artistic way of " being naturally different. "
Wang once said that an artistic aesthetic is something that emerges through long years of stylistic refinement and expression.
Every artist goes through a non-stop process of evolution, accumulating a kind of natural grace as time goes by.
If old age enabled Wang to become " steadily more proficient "-as Buddhism would have it-at his art, it also made him " steadily more forgetful. "
Sometimes, when tidying up works of poetry from years before, he would come across one that he had no recollection of ever writing.
This did n't depress him, however.
On the contrary, he considered it an advantage of memory loss that it enabled him to look more objectively at his own works, as if someone else had written them.
With this in mind he came up with another style name for himself : " Forgetful old man. "
Eventually he came to forget almost everything that had ever happened to him, both the sorrows and the joys.
After a lifetime dedicated to the pursuit of art, Wang at last entered that state of freedom in which " the man and his calligraphy have both attained maturity. "
When Wang was young he once wrote the following lines on seeing the work of an ancient master at firsthand : " Ink from the brush of a master gives one the sensation of seeing something that is living and breathing, flesh and blood.
One almost feels in the presence of the calligrapher, as if meeting him ' face to face. ' "
Wang's calligraphy is still everywhere to be seen on the streets of Taipei, in the form of the signs for such institutions as the Kungpao Building, Taipei Teachers ' Meeting Hall, Taiwan Land Bank, and the Chunghwa Bookstore.
The exhibition of Wang's calligraphy and seal carvings, spanning every period of his creative career, runs at the National Palace Museum in Taipei from January 20 until April 15.
It's a great opportunity to come " face to face "
Wang's calligraphy is still everywhere to be seen on the streets of Taipei, in the form of the signs for such institutions as the Kungpao Building, Taipei Teachers ' Meeting Hall, Taiwan Land Bank, and the Chunghwa Bookstore.
The exhibition of Wang's calligraphy and seal carvings, spanning every period of his creative career, runs at the National Palace Museum in Taipei from January 20 until April 15.
It's a great opportunity to come " face to face " with " Old Chuang, " and a chance to chart the growth that he went through during his life in art.
p. 68
In his later years Wang's calligraphy displayed an effortless synthesis of softness and strength, combining smooth fluidity with rugged brio.
-LRB-courtesy of Chang Ming-sui-RRB-
p. 69
" Blessed joy, eternal peace. "
At the age of around 50 Wang began incorporating forms of script from newly excavated ancient texts and inscriptions into his calligraphy, opening up new perspectives for the art.
-LRB-courtesy of Chang Ming-sui-RRB-
p. 71
" Fanshi Lake Red Plum Poem " written by Wang when he was 75.
The calligraphy is effortlessly dynamic, the very image of " a man and his calligraphy that have both attained maturity. "
p. 72
" Image of a mind become steadily more abstinent, " and " Ink and happiness. "
Wang carved each seal at one go, and his layout was always very compact.
p. 73
" Bowels dredged clean by long years of drinking. "
Wang, who enjoyed a tipple, carved plenty of " drinking seals. "
p. 73
" When poetry flows freely, the liquor has n't been wasted. "
Wang could wield his knife like an brush, dashing off inscriptions with the same fluidity as he painted characters.
This was especially true of the signature marks on his seals.
p. 74
Wang's widow, Chang Ming-sui, and son Wang Ta-chih, often spend time in the study recalling Wang as they look over his works of calligraphy.
p. 75
A seal knob inscription carved by Wang for his wife.
Encouraged by Wang, Chang Ming-sui became an accomplished seal knob carver in her own right.