Taiwan's Fitness Market
Gets Pumped Up
-LRB-Eric Linphotos by Hsueh Chi-kuangtr. by Phil Newell-RRB-
In the last few years, Tai-wan has been swept by a fitness fad.
Clubs offering workout facilities have sprung up incredibly quickly, so that now, counting both established firms and newcomers, there are more than 700 separate locations !
In the midst of an economic downturn, the fitness business is remarkably robust.
It is especially noteworthy that in this new century large foreign health clubs have set their sights on the Taiwan market, hanging out their well-known shingles in a battle for market share with local firms.
This struggle has brought the fitness market to a fever pitch, and also is sparking new and diversified ideas about health in Taiwan.
" A health club is a playground for adults, that's what it is ! " says Mr. Wu, a florist.
This health club in Taipei's fashionable eastern district, with its stylish lighting and blasting music, is more like a discotheque.
Mr. Wu has just completed his step aerobics class.
As he catches his breath, he says that he never much liked exercise, but that in the half year since joining the club his life has been dramatically transformed.
Not only is his body slimmed down, but he looks and feels much more energetic.
Recreational fitness
" At first I came just to get in shape.
I signed up with a group of friends who talked me into it.
But it's fantastic here.
Every time I enter the club and hear that pounding music, I get a rush.
And with so many different and fun aerobics classes, exercise is n't hard labor anymore, " he says.
And thanks to joining the club, the naturally shy Wu has made a lot of new friends.
In another club which offers a swimming pool and " spa " services-LRB-like mineral baths or massage-RRB-, a group of middle-aged ladies who work out in the afternoons sit by the side of the pool enthusiastically talking about the best way to reduce fat around the waistline.
Mrs. Wang declares : " Coming to the health club together is now the most frequent way we neighbors socialize.
Plus by keeping slim you are less likely to get diseases connected to obesity, and you can look younger to boot ! "
Within the last year, gleaming new health centers have set up shop in the Tong Lin Department Store in the Eastern District, the NOVA shopping center near the train station, and the Spring Galaxy theater complex in Hsimenting.
In order to keep up with the competition, the Far Eastern, Sincere, and Asiaworld department stores will also go into business with health centers this year.
And that's just in Taipei.
Meanwhile, numerous gyms, billing themselves as " recreation clubs, " have opened in the cities of Taichung, Tainan, and Kaohsiung.
A national movement
Seeking to find market niches, various clubs are targeting specific market segments.
Some are for women only.
Others, like California Fitness Centers and Gold's Gym, set up in commercial districts, aiming for office workers.
Alexander, an island-wide chain, is family-friendly, open to all ages.
Agora Garden, which commands steep prices, combines fitness with business conferencing functions.
The variety is bewildering and the numbers-now more than 700 locations around Taiwan-are astonishing.
Rex, an overseas Chinese from South Africa, who began his career as a trainer at California Fitness Centers, took notice of this wave beginning to build three years ago, and returned to Taiwan to devote himself to the local market.
Analyzing the current direction, he says that global trends and the explosion in media have brought Western ideas of beauty to Taiwan, and the ideal of the " firm and healthy " physique is driving Taiwan consumers into the gym.
" People in Taiwan are beginning to accept that a beautiful body requires effort, and you are n't going to get a sculpted physique with vibrating massage chairs, beauty parlors, or weight-loss pills, " he says.
But people in Taiwan have never had the idea, now common in the West, that physical fitness should be part of the routine of life.
A sculpted body alone is unlikely to be enough to get people motivated to work out-LRB-otherwise you would n't see people spending so much money at beauty parlors for a quick fix-RRB-.
This is why multi-functional health centers-offering health, a good body, fun, and socializing-are driving the market, so that working out has become a fashionable leisure-time activity, and Taiwanese, never known for their love of athletics, are heading in droves to have fun at the gym.
Local vs. foreign
In general, you could divide the main orientations of Taiwan gyms into two basic types : local and Western.
Large health centers which are backed by local investors and managed by local people focus on combining the long-held beliefs that fall under the traditional Chinese idea of " health cultivation. "
These types of gyms incorporate spa, beauty, aromatherapy, and recreational functions under one roof.
Tang Ya-chun, chairwoman of the largest local chain, Alexander Health Clubs, which has 20 locations island-wide, says that the habit of working out must be cultivated over the long term.
Many people join with a sudden burst of interest, but drop out halfway.
In order to keep business going, and keep people coming habitually over the long term, it is necessary that health centers appeal to customers with " freebies "-meaning gain with no pain.
" If health centers can offer not only working out but also recreational functions, then members will keep coming back, " says Tang.
" Modern urban life is stressful and fast-paced, and sometimes a member may be more in need of the relaxation provided by a sauna or aroma-therapy.
Then next time they 'll come back for a workout. "
A mix of freebies and challenges is better at keeping consumers ' motivation high.
While they share the ambition of attracting more people to their ranks, foreign chains nonetheless take a different approach.
Right now the most noteworthy foreign group in Taiwan is California Fitness Centers, which now has three gigantic branches.
Asian regional CEO Eric Levine says that he does not agree with offering spa and aromatherapy facilities in a gym, because these encourage " laziness. "
But it can not be denied that working out is a relatively new concept in Asia.
Hence, California's approach is to make exercise " recreational " and " fashionable. "
As Levine explains : " We have deliberately put more lighting and decor into our Asian locations, and placed them in the busiest shopping districts, in hopes that working out will become fashionable, and going to the gym will be like going to a good pub.
We want it to be more cool, more exciting, and more fun than a traditional gym, and for members to come to the center with the same attitude they take shopping for Chanel or Prada. "
Levine says that working out is already part of life in the West, so people do n't go to the gym to socialize.
But Asians prefer group activities, and as a result California is putting more emphasis on aerobics classes, with classes every hour all day, so that members can join in any time.
Each center also has dozens of trainers who provide free advice or paid workout supervision.
When East meets West
No matter what tack operators may take to attract consumers, large health centers provide mainly the same services.
Besides traditional equipment for weightlifting and cardio-pulmonary exercises, most have made aerobics the centerpiece in the new fitness fad.
There are all kinds, such as martial arts aerobics, step aerobics, Latin aerobics, and weight-enhanced aerobics.
As their names suggest, these classes modify traditional aerobic dance by adding martial arts moves, step platforms, Latin rhythms, dumbbells, and other props, thereby placing the focus of the workout on different muscle groups.
In addition, aerobics centers commonly provide classes in Asian health techniques like yoga, tai-chi, and qigong.
" Yoga and tai-chi have not been added just for Taiwan, " says Eric Levine.
In fact, the trend in fitness is toward a more Oriental approach, such as the inclusion of martial arts or " power yoga " into aerobics.
There is little tradition of athletics in Taiwan, and it is too early to talk about any uniquely local forms that can be incorporated into Western workouts.
But it is interesting to observe how differences in definitions of beauty have affected exercise preferences.
Rex, with his many years of training experience, finds it especially notable that " women in Taiwan do n't really go for the American female approach of developing muscular bodies.
They prefer lithe bodies, and as a result they are much more into aerobics than weight training.
Most guys in Taiwan, meanwhile, focus on the upper body, and are looking for form, rather than aiming to be hugely muscular. "
Healthy consumption ?
You might think that local health centers, with more attention to relaxation and " health cultivation, " would attract a higher age bracket, while foreign centers, with the accent on fashion and novelty, would draw the younger crowd.
But these lines do not necessarily define how consumers choose.
Cheng Chia-cheng, who has just finished his military service and is preparing for the bar exam, says that his main consideration in choosing a center was location and convenience.
He does n't like the crowded feeling of the shopping district.
" When you work out, the atmosphere should be calm, so that you can use different equipment when you need to and your concentration is n't broken by disturbances. "
Liang Yung-hwa, manager of the Yungho branch of the Eslite bookstore, who has been working out for five years now, says that the new clubs spend too much money on lighting and on equipment that people who are really serious about working out never use, so the membership fees are three to four times those of the older gyms.
He declares : " The lives of city people are incredibly busy, and it's already a luxury to have an hour a day to work out, so there is n't much time to waste on stuff that is purely for recreation.
But if you consider that it costs NT$ 20,000 in annual fees, plus the initial membership price of another NT$ 10-20,000-altogether about a month's salary for an office worker-most of that money is wasted. "
With consumers like him, who do n't throw their money around, despite the proliferation of new health centers, traditional gyms have not been badly affected.
Chen Ting-yin, the proprietor of the Taipei Gym, which has been going strong for 16 years now, says that the fitness fad is good for all exercise enthusiasts : " Ten or so years ago people had to scrape together a bunch of odds and ends of free weights, which of course limited how much could be done.
Now there are machines available for training each particular muscle. "
Though, he adds, there is also such a thing as too much equipment of little value.
Fitness or foolhardiness ?
Fitness is a worthwhile investment as well as being a fad.
But blind following of fads can lead to an outcome exactly opposite to the one desired.
Chung Pei-chen, chairwoman of the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine at the Taiwan Adventist Hospital, says that from time to time whole families take up special offers and join together, but, in her opinion, health club facilities-LRB-except for swimming pools-RRB-are not necessarily suitable for all age groups.
" People over 50 or under 16 can easily hurt themselves lifting heavy weights, so I tell people not to be foolhardy, " she says.
The muscles of older people are less securely attached to their bones, and unless a person has been working out since a young age, sudden intense exercise can lead to a deterioration of cartilage, with more damage than benefit for the body.
As for children, they tend to think of exercise as just a kind of play, with accidents often resulting because of fooling around.
Dr. Chung suggests that fitness should begin when young, and those who start very late should stick to swimming, fast walking, and exercise bikes, which are of moderate intensity.
And she adds, " It's more natural just to exercise when and where you can in daily life-take a walk in the park, climb the stairs.... "
Be that as it may, walking in the park is no substitute for a sustained workout program.
Chiang Li-hua, a sales manager in a high-tech industry who has been working out for 15 years, from the earliest Clark Hatch Fitness Center to the health and beauty center in a hotel today, says that people who work out for a long time truly love exercise, love themselves, and are seeking a better quality of life.
This is a habit that is well worth investing in, and people should force themselves to go.
" It's better to invest in training your body than to spend time and money on medical care when you get sick, " she says.
As for the future, health club managers are optimistic about the potential market.
Eric Levine relates that the Tong Lin branch of California has more members than any of their branches anywhere in the world.
Working out is not like other consumer behavior : The demand for exercise among modern people will only increase, not decline.
It seems that at least as far as the operators are concerned, Taiwan health clubs are certainly working out.
p. 29
Pulsating music, elaborate lighting, TVs....
Some foreign health clubs are trying to make working out fashionable to attract the yuppie and office worker crowd.
-LRB-location courtesy of California Fitness Centers-RRB-
p. 30
Everyone can appreciate a good physique, and the desire to have one is a major motivating factor for people to work out.
-LRB-photo by Diago Chiu-RRB-
p. 33
Aerobics with free weights-LRB-opposite left-RRB-, yoga-LRB-opposite right-RRB-, tanning-LRB-below-RRB-, exercycles-LRB-right-RRB-....
The new fitness trend incorporates Western and Eastern health ideas, offering diversified options to enthusiasts.
-LRB-location courtesy of Alexander Health Clubs-RRB-
p. 34
There are great differences among clubs in terms of facilities and prices.
You 'd better shop around.