Terracotta Warriors Invade Taipei
-LRB-Tsai Wen-tingtr. by David Mayer-RRB-
The terracotta warriors from the tomb of Qin Shi Huang, which is included on the list of World Heritage sites of the UNESCO, have come ashore in Taiwan !
The 17 warriors now on display at the National Museum of History represent the largest contingent from the ancient tomb ever to travel on loan outside of mainland China.
" Reporting to the general, sir !
A mob of thousands has surrounded the building ! "
A mounted warrior delivers the dire news to his commander, whose high rank can be seen in his tasseled helmet and coat of mail.
The " mob, " of course, is thirsty not for blood.
They just want a glimpse of the warriors.
Although the warriors may not be aware of it, they are the star attraction at a blockbuster exhibit showing now at the National Museum of History in Taipei.
Since opening on December 15, the exhibit has touched off a wave of enthusiasm in Taiwan for the terracotta warriors, and lines for admission have often snaked along the street for hundreds of meters.
Over 20,000 advance tickets have been sold, and group visits are already booked solid to the end of January.
Many schools in central and southern Taiwan are renting buses by the dozen to ferry their students up to Taipei, and lots of foreign tourists are also coming by for a look.
Eighth wonder
Shaanxi Province was hit by a long drought in the summer of 1974.
The farmer Yang Zhifa and a neighbor were digging a well when a shovel clinked on something hard.
Yang exclaimed, " Whoa ! It's them ! "
Locals had talked for generations about the buried clay figures that they would sometimes run across while digging in the fields.
Everyone knew they were out there, but no one knew quite what they were.
People figured they must have been connected with ancestral spirits of some sort.
Anxious not to run afoul of the netherworld, the farmers would always hurriedly throw dirt back over the spot and find a better place to dig.
This time, however, Yang Zhifa went a step further.
He reported the incident to his superiors at the local commune.
It was n't long before archeologists were swarming over the site, unearthing an army of terracotta warriors that had lain buried for over 2,000 years.
The stunning discovery was dubbed the eighth wonder of the world.
The terracotta army gives a graphic illustration of the grand scale of Qin Shi Huang's ambitions.
It also shows how technologically advanced China already was when Qin Shi Huang was buried some 2,200 years ago.
In order to create the feel of an actual descent into the emperor's tomb, the museum has arranged the exhibit so that visitors enter on the second floor and descend from there into a tomb-like atmosphere on the first floor, where the dimly lit space affords a glimpse of what was on the emperor's mind during the years he was busily uniting China for the very first time in history.
The afterlife
Qin Shi Huang united China in the year 221 B.C.
He regarded his achievements as " surpassing those of the Three Kings and Five Emperors of old, " and appointed himself " the first true emperor, " or Qin Shi Huang.
A believer in the possibility of immortality, the emperor once dispatched a trusted aide on a voyage across the seas to search for magic herbs that would provide eternal youth.
Perhaps as " plan B, " he also poured vast resources into the construction of a burial mound equipped with all the accoutrements that he was accustomed to in the here and now.
The population of the kingdom of Qin at that time was about 20 million, of whom over 2 million were mobilized to bring his grand underground palace to completion.
Now that the complex has been discovered, it is unquestionably the life-size terracotta warriors and horses that inspire the most amazement.
The 8,000 figures that have been unearthed at the site in Shaanxi Province were all executed with painstaking realism.
The rank of each figure determined every little detail of its making, right down to the type of military uniform, cap, armor, hairstyle, and beard.
Artisans even incised the soles of the soldiers ' shoes to show the threads, and made sure the horses ' teeth were realistically done.
Each face is unique.
Some characters project an air of stern authority.
Others suggest a fierce and violent personality.
Still other faces clearly belong to tender, untested young greenhorns.
The tremendous individuality in the warriors never fails to amaze.
Indeed, there are people who subscribe to the rumor that each clay figure encloses the corpse of a real person.
Careful inspection of the markings on the figures reveals that about 90 " master craftsmen " participated in the making of the terracotta warriors, each supported by a team of ten or more assistants.
The total number of artisans involved probably came to nearly a thousand.
Some of them were employed by imperial kilns, while others came from private establishments.
It was a huge undertaking, for each figure had to be shaped, molded, kneaded, sculpted, and painted.
Decorative relief elements had to be applied.
The figures had to be covered with an off-white slip to approximate the color of skin.
The hair, too, had to be appropriately colored.
Even the horses were painted in appropriate shades of reddish-brown and black.
Their tongues were done in pink, and their teeth in white.
The soldiers stand a surprising 180 centimeters in height, prompting many to ask whether the men of that time were actually taller than their modern counterparts.
There are two different theories concerning this question, says Wu Yongqi, the head of the Museum of Terracotta Warriors.
In Taipei for the exhibit, Wu explains that some say it is natural that the figures should be taller since people from China's northwest-where the Qin kingdom was located-have always been taller than other Chinese.
Others, however, theorize that the artisans intentionally made the figures slightly larger than life to compensate for the shrinkage that would take place while the freshly molded figures were drying.
The cultured side of Qin
But if you visit the exhibit, do n't be so dazzled by the terracotta figures that you forget all about the exhibit's larger focus on Qin artifacts in general.
Tu Cheng-sheng, director of the National Palace Museum, stated after visiting the exhibit that most of our knowledge concerning the Qin dynasty comes from official dynastic histories authored during the Han period.
These later authors generally had a jaundiced view of the Qin, and tended to focus on the ruthless, autocratic rule of Qin Shi Huang while paying less attention to the positive achievements of Qin culture, or the beauty of Qin handicrafts.
A round eaves-tile at the exhibit features an image of a running deer, its stout, robust frame executed with startling skill.
An elderly visitor was overheard exclaiming to his wife : " They made such beautiful tiles !
I wonder if we can even do anything that nice today ? "
Also featured at the exhibit are two replicas of brass Qin-period chariots on loan from the Taiwanese art collector Huang Jen-chung and the National Museum of Natural Science.
Each chariot is assembled from over 7,000 different pieces, and is half the size of the original, which has been described as " the most extraordinary bronze piece ever made " on account of its huge size, complex structure, and lifelike realism.
In addition, scholars have discovered that the bronze weapons unearthed along with the soldiers all have a different percentage of copper and tin, depending on their purpose.
Arrowheads, with their requirement for hardness and ability to penetrate armor, had a higher ratio of tin than other weapons.
And a bronze sword, found bent out of shape from the weight of fallen clay figures sitting on it for two millennia, sprang back immediately to its original shape once the heavy objects were removed from on top of it.
It is evident that the bronze metalworkers of that time were very highly skilled.
The exhibit will remain in Taiwan until March 11.
The National Museum of History is open from 10:00 to 18:00 on weekdays and 09:30 to 18:00 on weekends and holidays.
In order to give persons with disabilities a chance to view the exhibit without having to fight the crowds, the museum will provide free admission just for these special guests every Wednesday at 09:00.
The wait for admission has sometimes taken two to three hours, but the crowds are likely to grow gradually smaller with time, so it might be a good idea to wait a few weeks before heading to the museum.
In the meantime, you can find lots of information on the exhibit, including a virtual tour, on the Internet at http:www.qin.com.tw.
p. 069
A terracotta army was crafted to escort Qin Shi Huang, first emperor of a unified China, in the afterlife, where he hoped to live forever.
Today, the army stands as testimony to the highly developed state of China's ancient civilization.
-LRB-courtesy of the National Museum of History-RRB-
p. 070
These 2,200-year-old officers and soldiers stand a head taller than their modern counterparts.
Were the men of old really so tall ?
Or did they only select the biggest and strongest to serve in the army ?
Or were the artisans simply exaggerating ?
There are many competing explanations on this score.
-LRB-photo by Hsueh Chi-kuang-RRB-
p. 070
-LRB-facing page-RRB-
Each of the more than 8,000 warriors unearthed from the emperor's tomb has a unique facial expression.
The headgear worn by this figure indicates that he is a general.
-LRB-photo by Diago Chiu-RRB-