" At the End of Rainbows " Looking for Palauan Pots of Gold
" From Taiwan's point of view, Palau is like a freshly opened oyster, when you first see the shining pearl. "
So declares Gennie Yen, the director of the ROC Office of the Palau Visitors Authority.
To be sure, since the establishment of diplomatic relations between the ROC and Palau last December 29, the island has received considerable media attention in Taiwan.
The number of Taiwan visitors to Palau in January was double the number of last January.
In March, foreign minister Chen Chien-jen led a delegation to Palau which included government officials, private sector business people, and representatives of the mass media.
And in April, the Taipei office of the Palau Visitors Authority formally opened its doors.
This " Palau fever " has also infected Taiwan business people, who are always " susceptible " to new opportunities.
Building on the foundation of formal diplomatic relations, many Taiwanese firms are anxious to try their hand and to explore Palau's investment environment.
A guidebook describes this beautiful archipelago nation in the South Pacific as being " at the end of rainbows. "
Though this may seem far, far away, in fact, Palau is geographically the closest to Taiwan of all the countries with which the ROC has formal diplomatic ties.
A direct flight takes only three-and-a-half hours.
Perhaps for Taiwanese, there are rather more immediate implications to " the end of rainbows. "
This unfamiliar and exotic land is a virgin territory of commercial opportunities for tourism, trade and investment.
Jewels in the Pacific
Taiwan and Palau share much more in common in terms of culture and historical position than most people realize.
The people of Palau are of the same ethnic background as the aboriginal people of Taiwan-Malayo-Polynesian.
Last year when the inaugural Polynesian Cultural Festival was held in Taitung County, scholars and arts troupes from Palau were among the participants.
During the modern age of Western and Japanese colonialism, both Taiwan and Palau experienced foreign rule which has left traces of Spanish, Japanese, American, and other cultures.
After WWII, Taiwan was returned to Chinese rule, while Palau became a UN trust territory under US authority.
-LRB-Palau did not gain full independence until 1994.-RRB-
Palau-Taiwan political contacts began in the 1980s.
In 1983, President Haruo I. Remeliik led the first Palauan delegation to Taiwan.
There have been numerous official visits since then.
In 1984, the two countries signed an agricultural cooperation agreement, and Taiwan dispatched a technical assistance team there.
Since the beginning of exchanges between the two governments, Taiwanese business people have been conducting trade with Palau, and have also invested there, entering the restaurant, fishing, retail, and other trades.
During the Taiwan Strait missile crises in 1995 and 1996, when rumors and panic filled the air, fraudulent business groups in Taiwan cheated many investors with a scam surrounding real estate in Palau, but there was a silver lining to this cloud : It attracted the attention of more Taiwan business people, and especially the domestic tourism industry, to business opportunities in Palau.
Bin-fang Stone, now director of the Palau-ROC Friendship Association, was one of those who came to Palau at that time to explore the possibility of investment in real estate.
Stone states : " Before independence, there was a serious lack of tourist facilities in Palau.
Most of the visitors were in specially-organized groups from the US or Japan which came for deep sea fishing or scuba diving.
It was only when Taiwan tourist agencies began developing the tourist route to Palau that many Taiwanese began to invest in the tourism industry here. "
Snorkeling, one of the most popular activities in Palau, was brought in by Taiwanese entrepreneurs, and you could say that they have been among the founders of the Palauan tourism industry.
Currently there are more than 100 Taiwanese living in Palau.
Most of them are in the tourism industry, in operations such as tourist agencies, hotels, and water sports.
Though most of the investments are small, there are large projects, including the Hotel Palau, opened in 1998 and built by the Kuomintang-run ACC Corporation development company, as well as a large vacation spa currently being built by the Hung Kuo Group.
In addition, Taiwan businessman Chen Liang-shen made a major investment by purchasing outright a local hotel.
Zero pollution
Many Taiwan business people saw the establishment of formal diplomatic relations as a green light for investment in Palau.
The foreign ministry delegation that visited Palau in March included private sector firms involved in tourism, textiles, electronics, and fishing, who went to investigate the investment environment.
Taiwanese entrepreneurs already in Palau enthusiastically welcomed the establishment of an embassy there, which makes the future of their investments even more secure.
Lin Neng-jong, director-general of the Industrial Development and Investment Center of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, who visited the island in March, points to some special concerns in the Palau investment environment : For one thing, the main islands are too rocky for agricultural development.
Moreover, the economy is not highly developed, and-except for fishing products-other materials all have to be imported.
Therefore the island is not at an advantage in material terms.
In addition, the total population is only 18,000.
Anyone interested in establishing a factory there will face a labor shortage.
In fact, Palau relies on " imports " for most of its labor as well, and there are 6000 foreign workers in the country.
Lin concludes : " Tourism is still the best investment in Palau right now. "
Early Taiwanese investors have certainly been proved perspicacious, since Palau's pollution-free environment is its greatest asset.
Diving aficionados have hailed Palau as the greatest of the seven wonders of the deep.
Its waters support more than 700 varieties of coral and 1500 varieties of fish.
The ocean water is warm and the currents are moderate, making for ideal diving conditions.
In addition, there is a great deal of shallow water, which is tailor-made for snorkeling, so that even tourists who are not particularly at home in the water can enjoy the magnificence of the ocean.
Especially noteworthy is " Blue Corner, " one of the most famous snorkeling locations in the world.
And it is not only the ocean that is beautiful ; Palau's land scenery is also absorbing.
The " Rock Islands, " known as " a garden on the sea, " have extensive white sand beaches and a rich variety of coastal plant life, as well as amazing waterfalls.
The islands of Peleliu and Anguar, which were battlefields in the Pacific war between the US and Japan, are criss-crossed by tunnels built by the Japanese, while the remains of ships and aircraft dot the ocean floor.
These islands have great potential as sites for historical tourism.
In the air, because Palau is a tropical ocean climate, and rains leave as fast as they come, tourists are often treated to rainbows.
Gennie Yen, the director of the Taiwan office of the Palau Visitors Authority, says that people have even seen three rainbows at one time.
And if there has been no rain, you can see a kind of horizontal rainbow by standing on the beach at sunset and following with your eyes the different shades of blue of the receding ocean as they merge into the bands of reds in the evening sky.
In these islands surrounded by coral, which are virtually always calm and windless, you can be pulled into the sky under a parasailer, and have a whiff of what the scent of Heaven must be like.
In addition, the bia-LRB-traditional structures where men met to socialize and discuss local affairs-RRB-, and also the local species of non-poisonous jellyfish, are other items that are especially interesting to tourists.
Reinvigorating the tourism market
Lin Neng-jong says there are two viable directions to get into the Palau tourism industry.
One is to invest in a tourism-related industry in Palau, the other is to increase the number of Taiwan tourists and extend profit opportunities into Taiwan itself.
Oddly, despite Palau's beauty, in the past few years tourism has dropped off considerably.
In 1997, there were more than 70,000 foreign visits to Palau.
Last year the figure was 50,000.
Taiwan has been, along with Japan, one of the main sources of tourists to Palau.
In 1997, the number of Taiwanese visitors peaked at more than 30,000 annually, but now is down to well below 20,000.
As a result, Taiwan tourism businesses in Palau, which mainly cater to Taiwanese, are crying uncle.
" It's not only the hotel industry, even at Chinese restaurants business has fallen off sharply, " says Chu Hui-chun.
Chu, who also operates a tourist agency, was forced to move the Chinese restaurant she had run for many years to much smaller premises.
Hsu Wen-sheng, deputy director-general of the ROC Tourism Bureau, says that a major reason why profit margins have shrunk is that tour operators in Taiwan no longer aggressively push Palau as a destination.
Hsu notes that Far East Airlines, which operates the Taiwan-to-Palau route, raised the price of a ticket by over NT$ 3000 two years ago, citing inadequate passenger demand and high costs.
This made Palau much less competitive compared to other places such as Guam, Bali, and Phuket.
Hsu concludes : " If the price is raised for tour groups, no one is interested, but if the original price is maintained, the tour operators ' profit falls too low.
A lot of tourist agencies have simply given up promoting this route. "
James Yeh, general manager of the Sunrise Express Travel Service, which specializes in Pacific Island tours, says that the current trend among travelers in Taiwan is for low group fares with lots of entertainment provided.
Most people who go on island vacations are looking for pure recreation, so they would prefer to be somewhere where the facilities are more developed.
Though Palau is rich in natural attractions, it lacks peripheral tourist facilities like pubs, shopping centers, and gift shops, so naturally the islands are less attractive.
Despite all this, James Yeh notes that the rate of return visitors to Palau is very high, more than 30 %.
Clearly the island is still very appealing.
If the problems of high group rates and inadequate facilities can be solved, there is enormous potential yet in Palau.
The Palauan government is working hard to eliminate obstacles to solving the above problems.
Johnny Itaru Kishigawa, director of the Palau Visitors Authority, says that the government is going forward on a new airport and a number of tourist-related facilities.
They are also studying a proposal from the Taiwan side to lower landing fees and reduce underlying ticket costs.
In addition, the PVA now has a Taiwan office, and hopes to raise Palau's profile among Taiwan travellers.
Gone fishin'
In the current wave of interest in investment in Palau, the fisheries industry is also getting attention.
Currently, there's only one Taiwanese business person in the fishing industry in Palau-Tai Jung-fei-so profits are quite good.
" At first I was in business with a bunch of friends, and we rented eight fishing boats, but profits were only ordinary.
After my friends pulled out of the operation, I switched over to mainly running a base for fishing boats. "
Little did he expect that profits would be much larger, especially after the company acquired local fishing rights for 75 years.
During the peak season from May to October, more than ten tuna ships come in every day to offload their catch and to resupply.
These days, Tai's Palau Marine Industries covers an area of 1.5 acres and employs more than 40 staff.
It offers advanced freezing facilities and two aircraft, guaranteeing to deliver tuna fresh to the Japanese market within 24 hours.
However, though Tai has made quite a name for himself with his business, this does not necessarily mean that other Taiwanese can come and make similar investments.
Koo Kuang-ming, chairman of Koo's Holdings Company Ltd., which operates fishing boats in the South Pacific, explains that South Pacific fishing is divided into two types-net fishing, and line fishing of tuna.
Palau is not really suited to the former, because its territorial waters are not large, so the catch is limited.
On the other hand, tuna stocks there are high, so Palau is more suited to line fishing.
But the problem is that Tai Jung-fei is already running a tuna base there, and it is debatable whether there is the need for another one.
Koo warns : " It's hard to estimate the potential catch.
If there were several firms, the risk would be much greater. "
In addition, though there are many varieties of fish around Palau, the scale of operations is small, and markets are far away, so the return on investment would not necessarily be very high.
Koo points instead to a different option : The waters around Palau are clear and warm, which makes them suited to aquaculture.
So far, returns from the small-scale aquaculture of scallops have been decent.
Koo cautions, however, that " if you want to invest, you have to go large-scale, because after all Palau is far from the main markets. "
Palau Free Trade Zone
In 1986, Palau, like many former American-controlled trust territories, signed a " Compact of Free Association " with the US.
The agreement allows Palauan products to enter the States tax-free, and there are no quota limits for such things as textiles.
For Taiwan, a major producer of textiles and electronics, this is a very strong investment incentive.
Currently Japanese and Taiwanese business people are negotiating with the Palauan government to establish a Palau Free Trade Zone.
The idea is for Palau to designate a special zone for economic development, with the Palau government providing tax and land-use incentives.
The zone would be for processing of exports, mainly in textiles and electronics, and mainly to the US market.
Felix Yen, president of the Zhen An Palau Corporation, which is handling the Hung Kuo project, is very familiar with the business climate in Palau.
He says that right now the main obstacles to foreign investment are land acquisition and communications.
Under Palauan law foreigners are not allowed to own land there, but can only lease land for development.
The longest permitted lease is 50 years.
But even leasing is a complicated matter, because traditionally land in Palau is owned jointly by the family and the clan.
Moreover, communications and Internet access are not very reliable.
All of these problems deter investors.
Though the communications problems may be resolved within a few years-the government has received US assistance for priority construction of electricity and fiber optic facilities-Lin Neng-jong still cautions those interested in signing on to the free trade zone plan to " be prudent. "
" The point to watch out for in the whole plan is that Taiwan firms may not understand that it might not be all that good a deal from the point of view of the Palau authorities, " he says.
Currently foreign firms are more pro-active than the Palauan government, which has its own concerns : The indigenous population is small, and there could be social problems if a large number of foreign workers come to the islands.
Also, the government must weigh economic development against environmental destruction.
" The terms under which Palau would accept the proposed zone may not be as good as many Taiwan business people optimistically expect. "
Looking at the larger picture, however, there are many areas and ways to invest.
A careful look will show that Palau has many pearls.
Li Mao-tsung, a pottery expert living in the US, who was commissioned by the ROC government to do a study of the suitability of Palauan clays for pottery, says that Palau has a lot of clay of decent quality, making the islands a good location for the development of art pottery or large scale pottery and porcelain production.
Unique investment opportunities like these are waiting to be taken up by alert entrepreneurs.
Perhaps Palau is, as Gennie Yen says, like a just-opened oyster, with the pearl gleaming before your eyes.
But to grasp the pearl, Taiwan business people will have to rely on their wisdom and experience.