Chinese New Year in the Southern Hemisphere
-LRB-by Lin Ying-hua, Auckland, New Zealandtr. by Christopher MacDonald-RRB-
It was the middle of summer in New Zealand, and the time for celebrating Chinese New Year.
There are plenty of Asian immigrants on the east side of Auckland, and if New Zealanders can have Christmas on a sweltering hot day, then why should n't we Asians do something to mark our traditional New Year ?
Thus it was that the United Asian Association-LRB-UAA-RRB-and the Hua-Hsia Association-a Taiwanese organization-organized the " Celebrating Oriental New Year " event.
To our surprise, over 10,000 visitors came for the performances, along with a number of leading politicians including Prime Minister Jenny Shipley and the mayor of Manukua.
The event took place outdoors in Howick Domain and lasted over five hours.
In addition to the Hua-Hsia Association, groups representing Korea, the Philippines, Malaysia and other Asian countries participated.
The stage was meticulously decorated, with Chinese lanterns hanging from the canopy and a scarlet imperial robe draped against the black backdrop, creating a very Chinese atmosphere.
There were folk dances performed in traditional Chinese costume, and towards the end, a spectacular dragon dance given by members of the Hua-Hsia Association.
The sound of gongs and drums filled the air, along with clapping and gasps of admiration from the audience.
Not many knew how much hard work had gone on behind the scenes for this successful cultural event.
Support from the then-representative of the Taipei Economic and Cultural Office in New Zealand, R.C. Shih, was an important element in the event's success.
The chairman of the UAA, Sharon Stewart, is a New Zealander who is very fond of Asian culture.
She holds regular seminars for new immigrants, and was recently awarded the Queen's Service Medal in recognition of her dedication.
The UAA holds a " Celebrating Oriental New Year " event at this time every year as a way of encouraging cultural interchange, but every year it is a struggle to find co-sponsors willing to provide funding.
On this occasion, R.C. Shih's support led to the event being jointly presented by the Hua-Hsia Association and the UAA.
With the Hua-Hsia Association's committed support there were more than 30 snack booths present, giving the event the lively feel of a Chinese temple celebration.
The foreigners [ non-ethnic Chinese ] present were amazed in particular by the mass dragon dance that members of the Association performed.
A few years ago, when New Zealand was newly opened up to immigration and there were n't many Chinese around, hardly anyone had heard of the Hua-Hsia Association, and inviting government officials to attend such events was always fraught with difficulty.
As more and more Asian immigrants arrived, members of Parliament-vying for votes-began participating enthusiastically in the Association's events.
The fact that the Association has supported charitable causes in New Zealand for many years, donating time and money, has been especially important in terms of getting taken seriously by the government, and it is thanks to the efforts of immigrants from Taiwan that successes like the New Year celebration have become possible.
For our family, it was our tenth year in New Zealand since arriving as immigrants.
Our daughter had just turned ten and our son was starting primary school when we came here.
During the tough years as new immigrants we overcame numerous difficulties of language and culture, working to establish ourselves in this foreign land.
We wanted our children to quickly adapt to the Western world but without forgetting their Chinese roots, so we endlessly reminded them that we will always be " descendants of the Yellow Emperor, " and urged them to merge into Western society with the characteristic tenacity and humanity of Chinese people.
When the UAA was first set up in 1995, Sharon came to our house in need of assistance from the Chinese community, filled with enthusiasm but uncertain about how to make contact with the Chinese.
Our daughter has been Sharon's pal ever since, and it was she who suggested that Sharon see R.C. Shih about a co-sponsor for this year's New Year celebration.
Several weeks before the event Sharon asked me if I wanted to design a special garland to welcome the prime minister.
As a Howick resident and a floral designer, how could I refuse ?
I used scarlet silk cord and miniature embroidered Chinese slippers-LRB-as used in Chinese knotting-RRB-along with dried flowers, to make a red and gold garland.
As I put it on the premier I explained that these were lucky colors used for Chinese New Year.
She was delighted with this beautiful souvenir, rich in Chinese culture and art, and said she would keep it forever.
With the steady introduction of Chinese culture into this country, New Zealanders are generally more aware of Taiwan than before, and immigrants from Taiwan have been working hard to soften the anti-Asian sentiments of the locals.
When the program of New Year performances wrapped up, many New Zealand friends came forward to express their thanks, saying that they now felt more familiar with China and were eagerly looking forward to next year's " Howick in the Park " !
p. 43
The high point of the event came when the prime minister addressed the audience, standing before an imperial Chinese robe.