Genteel Journalis--
Thomas Lu
-LRB-Eric Lintr. by Robert Taylor-RRB-
Thomas Lu is the doyen of the Chinese news media.
Still out on the journalistic front lines at 81, this spry, forthright veteran has an immense zest for life.
At 78, drawing on his astonishingly sharp memory, he completed his reminiscences and " record of emotional regrets. "
He is not only one of the " wonders " of Taiwan's journalistic world, but is also recognized by those of his generation as a gentleman and a " good-looking man. "
A person's looks change with their age and their state of mind.
Many friends have told me I look better the older I get.
People do n't know that when I was young I had dreadful protruding teeth, but now not only do my teeth no longer show, but the lines of my face have also softened.
People who know me know that there have always been two great loves in my life : the news, and women.
Now that I'm in my 80s, looking back I think I can say I 've done alright in both respects, and I 've learnt that both reporting the news well, and finding favor with women, depend on your character and conduct.
Journalism is not just a profession, but should also be a vocation-you have to throw yourself fully into this infinitely broad field of endeavor.
Intellectually and spiritually, in work and in love, I have gained experience and fulfilment.
I have always remembered the encouragement which Mr. Yu Youren gave me as a young reporter.
He said that to be a fearless champion of social justice, as is expected of a journalist, the most important thing, apart from energy and vitality, is modesty.
You have to treat everybody the same, and not be overawed by the great and powerful.
A president or a street sweeper deserve the same respect as a human being, and should both be treated the same way.
Funnily enough, an unassuming attitude is also advantageous in relations with the opposite sex.
Chinese society is male dominated, and women are mostly regarded as having a subsidiary role.
In this kind of unfair situation, an upstanding man should cherish and respect women all the more.
A considerate attitude can be expressed in little things.
For instance, when you see that a hair has fallen onto a female friend's shoulder, you should lightly pick it off for her, and throw it away or put it in your pocket.
If sincere, this kind of action is attractive in a man.
If a woman expresses her liking for you, then no matter whether she is pretty, or whether you find her attractive, you should respond in the same way, and with the same respect.
When I was a young reporter stationed in Europe, there was a British woman reporter who liked me very much.
Once I was driving her somewhere to report a story when we had an accident, and she suffered some badly broken bones.
Although I was n't attracted to her in that way, I went to see her every day in hospital, and this left a deep impression on her of how considerate Chinese men can be.
Looking back at my life, I 've hardly had any really bad experiences in my relationships with women, and this is because just as in my professional life, I 've always maintained a self-critical attitude towards my emotions, and always tried to prevent myself acting like a male chauvinist.
Looks are something you are born with, but character is something you can work on, and it can outweigh your appearance.
Luo Jialun, one of the leading lights of the May Fourth Movement, is a famous example.
Luo was not good looking, and was even ridiculed as " looking like a cross between a pig, a dog and a bear. "
But he was tremendously well-read, had a beautiful writing style, and for a time he was Chinese ambassador to India.
His wife was a universally admired beauty, the envy of all.
So I say, " handsome is as handsome does. "
I was imprisoned by both the Kuomintang and the Communists, and at times I might have been killed.
Perhaps other people in the same situation might have wallowed in self-pity, but I saw it as a rare opportunity in life.
In 1951, in a dark prison cell during a big Communist purge, what came into my mind was not fear of death.
Instead, I wondered what kind of headline my death would merit in the newspapers.
" 10,000 Rush to See Lu Executed " ?
Perhaps it was this eternal optimism which changed my frame of mind and my appearance.
This is the advice I 'd like to give young people :
it's true that good looks can come from external grooming, wearing nice clothes, or wearing earrings ; and perhaps you can get other people's attention by creating your own special look.
But do n't overdo it.
It is appropriate dress, and a temperament developed through study and practice, which really make a man attractive.