Turning to the Constitution on the " One China " Issue
Still wrestling with the vexed issue of " one China, " the President's Advisory Group on Cross-Strait Relations met for its sixth and seventh sessions during November, amid frenzied media attention.
The group eventually reached a consensus that the " one China " principle advocated by the mainland should be addressed " in accordance with the constitution. "
How president Chen Shui-bian responds to this proposal will determine whether or not the " one China " stalemate can be broken, and if there is to be a set timetable for implementing the three direct links.
After assuming the presidency, Chen Shui-bian recruited a number of leading politicians, industrialists, academics and other personages for a non-partisan advisory group, intended to build cross-party consensus on the subject of relations with the mainland.
Chaired by Academia Sinica president Lee Yuan-tseh, the Presidential Advisory Group on Cross-Strait Relations first met in early September.
Since then the Group has held a series of intensive discussions on Taiwan's fundamental position regarding the cross-strait relationship.
The Group entered the final phase of discussions on the " one China " issue during November, but differences between pro-unification and pro-independence participants continued to stymie the effort to produce a statement acceptable to all.
As DPP legislator Shen Fu-hsiung pointed out, the Group had to draft something " palatable both to the pro-unification and pro-independence camps ; something which the DPP ca n't shun and yet which does n't make Beijing wince. "
Clearly no easy task.
On the evening of November 18 Advisory Group chairman Lee Yuan-tseh, meeting over dinner with DPP faction leaders, described the cross-strait situation as extremely precarious, and said that since time is not on Taiwan's side we need to step up efforts to resume dialogue with the mainland.
Separately, during his report to the Legislative Yuan on the Academia Sinica's budget, Lee reiterated : " If the whole population could arrive at a consensus on ' one China, ' then President Chen would have no grounds for not accepting that consensus. "
Lee added that he hoped the Advisory Group would shortly come to a firm conclusion on the " one China " issue.
Lee Yuan-tseh's appeal made little impression on the governing DPP, however.
Furthermore, DPP chairman Frank Hsieh himself came under fire within the party after stating : " The constitution of the ROC is itself a one China framework.
Since the DPP has participated in the process of constitutional amendment it ought to accept this constitution, and as the party of government we ca n't afford to override or reject it. "
According to DPP lawmaker Lin Cho-shui, Chen Shui-bian has shown more goodwill to Beijing as president than Lee Teng-hui ever did, but without any response-
so why should he once again be expected to respond on the " one China " issue ?
Also, Lin disagrees with Lee Yuan-tseh's assertion that " time is not on our side, " and instead feels that things are no worse than before.
Meanwhile, the opposition alliance has been calling for the DPP to " shed its ideological baggage. "
On November 24 the New Party, which had already pulled out of the Advisory Group, published an article in the press signed by leading members such as Yu Mu-ming and Chen Kui-miao, in which they called on the government to take the constitution as its starting point for breaking the " one China " deadlock.
They pointed out that Chen and the DPP had competed in elections in accordance with the constitution, winning the presidency and a share of seats in the legislature and the National Assembly, and had also participated in the process of revising the constitution.
Now, with its constitutionally granted mandate, the party has an obligation to fully uphold the constitution.
As the politicians argued, Formosa Plastics boss Wang Yung-ching convened a meeting with other captains of industry to come up with some advice for the government on economic policy.
For the first time Wang voiced support for Lee Yuan-tseh's proposal that " with ' one China ' as the precondition, each side can have its own interpretation. "
Wang also agreed with Lee's notion that time is running out for Taiwan, in the belief that Taiwan will only have time on its side once it starts to carry out well-intentioned engagement with the mainland.
Consensus on the " one China question " is an urgent priority for both sides if there is to be a peaceful future.
Wang Yung-ching's demand for a review of the government's " go slow " policy, and opening of the three direct links, brought a personal phone call from the president, who invited him to come and discuss policy.
On November 25 Wang and a handful of other leading industrialists went to call on the president at his official residence.
The businessmen said that shelving the " one China " issue was not the right thing for the government to do, and that Taiwan could no longer afford to play word games.
They stressed the need for early restoration of the mechanism for cross-strait economic dialogue, and said that the government should also think about moving towards political dialogue.
The Presidential Advisory Group met again on November 26, and discussed a proposal, made earlier by Public Television System chairman Wu Feng-shan and already favored by most members of the Group, for " one China " to be addressed through " three acknowledgements and four suggestions. "
A firm consensus was finally arrived at, and the Group submitted to the president its proposal that Taiwan should " respond to the mainland's ' one China ' proposition in accordance with the constitution of the ROC. "
The government and opposition parties continued to disagree regarding this consensus.
DPP legislator Lin Cho-shui described it as " acceptable, if not very satisfactory. "
PFP spokesman Li Ching-an called it " a conclusion without a conclusion. "
New Party convenor Hau Lung-pin said the statement was too ambiguous, tending towards " one China, with each side free to make its own interpretation, " and added that it was highly unlikely to be used by the president as a guide for cross-strait policy.
Ting Shou-chung, deputy executive director of the KMT policy committee, said this so-called consensus was simply a case of going round and round on the spot, and would do nothing to solve the core problem.
In a November 28 press release, the Mainland Affairs Council-LRB-MAC-RRB-, the government body in charge of cross-strait affairs, diplomatically stated that it would observe and implement the suggestions of the Advisory Group if and when they become official government policy.
Speaking on the topic of the three direct links, MAC chairwoman Tsai Ing-wen said that these will be phased in according to conditions, with the first phase being the opening of direct business links as necessitated by the admission of both sides to the WTO.
And according to economics minister Lin Hsin-yi, the government recognizes that the " go slow " policy needs to be relaxed, and will give a more thorough accounting of this before the end of the year.