Constitutional Revision Paves Way for Phasing Out National Assembly
-LRB-Chang Ching-jutr. by David J.
Toman-RRB-
On April 24 the National Assembly finalized the chief task of the sixth round of constitutional revisions during Lee Teng-hui's presidency : its own demobilization.
While this development will allay popular fears of an everlasting National Assembly, how to formulate comprehensive measures to fill in the constitutional and functional void of the moribund body becomes the next vital task.
On March 24, just days after the ROC presidential election, the Council of Grand Justices made a constitutional interpretation of last year's National Assembly term extension, declaring the move null and void.
This stirred the ire of National Assembly members, who struck back during the ensuing constitutional revision session, claiming that " lifelong privileges for grand justices violate the constitution. "
The reaction by a minority of NA delegates to the grand justices ' constitutional interpretation once again triggered displeasure in society at the body's refusal to admit its fallibility.
Activists in groups such as the Taipei Society and the Association of Taiwanese University Professors organized a street demonstration to call for the dissolution of the National Assembly.
A further consequence of the grand justices ' ruling was that an election would have to be held to produce a new National Assembly membership before the conclusion of the current term.
While this development had would-be candidates in all parties scrambling to launch election campaigns, by late March the post-presidential-election situation, combined with pressure from public opinion, pushed the KMT to work with the DPP on means to phase out the National Assembly, despite the KMT's previous opposition to the body's complete dissolution in the name of preserving the constitutional structure.
For a time, the question of whether to hold elections for the National Assembly, as well as the DPP and KMT's shared policy for phasing out the body, were viewed as motivated by fear of the growth of the People First Party-LRB-PFP-RRB-.
Thus the hubbub continued over the fate of the National Assembly for a fortnight, until finally the newly formed PFP caucus in the assembly agreed to its gradual downsizing.
This paved the way for the commencement on April 8 of the sixth round of constitutional revisions in recent years, in which such issues as reducing the total number of NA delegates and freezing their powers and duties-amounting to their " self-abolition "-became the center of discussion.
The various parties leveraged their carrots and sticks against their delegates, threatening expulsion for not supporting the neutralization of the National Assembly at the same time as they tried to appease their delegates.
Finally, on April 24 these maneuvers helped bring about the passage of several constitutional revisions, including deactivation of the National Assembly, favorable provisions for residents of Taiwan's offshore islands-LRB-Kinmen, Matsu, and Penghu-RRB-and military personnel, and revocation of lifelong special privileges for grand justices.
In line with these revisions, the voting public will no longer directly elect NA delegates.
Rather, the National Assembly will become a " task-based body " generated according to proportional political party representation in the legislature, maintaining the rights to ratification of constitutional revisions proposed by the Legislative Yuan, impeachment of the president and vice president, and resolutions on modifications to national territory.
With these changes, legislators will exercise approval over personnel appointments to the Judicial, Examination and Control yuans.
To be fair, the National Assembly does have its unique set of duties and powers under the existing structure, thus few people are ready to call for its complete abolition.
This is especially notable given the ambiguity of Taiwan's constitutional structure, seeing as it is not a presidential system, a cabinet system, or a two-headed system in the true sense.
Many scholars caution that eliminating the National Assembly and handing all its powers to the Legislative Yuan, while the government structure remains ambiguous, is not the best structural framework.
That said, despite landmark changes such as the full election of the national parliament in Taiwan and establishment of the legal groundwork for the direct election of the ROC president, the ROC Constitution has been revamped with alarming frequency over the past few years.
In fact, some have scoffed that the constitution, the basis upon which the nation's laws are founded, has been tinkered with more often than the civil and criminal codes.
Further, new duties and authorities were given to the National Assembly in order to achieve successive constitutional revisions.
For instance, in exchange for the assembly agreeing to give up its authority to elect the president, the body was given power of approval over personnel appointments to the Judicial Yuan, Examination Yuan, and Control Yuan.
With each revision, the constitution became increasingly jumbled, while NA delegates leveraged their positions to exact " constitutional amendment rent " and fatten themselves up.
Last year's term extension bill further solidified the public's image of the National Assembly as no more than a tool of political struggle, and a self-indulgent body at that, generating widespread consensus on the necessity of dissolving it.
While the latest round of constitutional revisions satisfies the general desire across the political spectrum to progressively dismantle the National Assembly, sloppy accompanying provisions and the failure of the various political parties to propose a new blueprint in its place provide cause for new concern over the health of constitutional government in the ROC.
For example, the National Assembly will become a " task-based body " generated according to the proportion of seats held by each political party in the legislature.
National Taiwan University professor Lee Hung-hsi, an expert on constitutional law, points out that less than 10 % of the Taiwanese population takes part in political party activities.
Thus a National Assembly generated proportionally according to party representation represents suppression of the views of the other 90 % of the population, and thus violates the principle of vesting authority over constitutional government in the people.
Following the demobilization of the National Assembly, many functions and powers currently held by the National Assembly will be transferred to the Legislative Yuan.
This in turn raises fears in the academic community that the Legislative Yuan could become an untamable new constitutional monster.
The expanded powers of the Legislative Yuan also include the impeachment and recall of the president and vice president, and the supplementary election of the vice president.
These changes tighten the relationship between the parliament and the president, requiring the president to report to the Legislative Yuan on the state of the nation.
But the president has only the passive authority to dissolve the parliament.
In the face of a parliament with supreme powers, a president whose party claims only a minority in the legislature is powerless even to replace a premier with whom he does not see eye to eye, leaving him devoid of the authorities and responsibilities to correspond with his administrative actions.
A China Times editorial urged that the question of whether the enormous Legislative Yuan might be split into two houses by function be evaluated and worked out as soon as possible.
The legal demobilization of the National Assembly was conducted without a hitch, yet the future of constitutional government looks bleak.
This dire outlook is surely not something Taiwan's political parties expected when, attempting to align with public opinion, they moved to phase out the National Assembly.