Emigrating to Shanghai : A Veteran Shares His Experience
-LRB-Chuang Chihtr. by David Mayer-RRB-
The prospect of emigrating to Shang-hai has caught the imagination of middle-class Taiwanese in recent years, and waves of business persons have been pouring into Shanghai since the early 1990s.
But is that really such a good idea ?
What happens when a Taiwanese expatriate settles in Shanghai ?
Taiwanese businessman Chen Pin, who moved to Shanghai a decade ago, has written of his experiences in Emigrating to Shanghai, which has sold like hotcakes since it was published just last October by Shang Hsun Cultural Publishing Company.
When you think of Shanghai, what comes to mind ?
The grand promenade and European-style buildings along the Bund ?
The bustling shopping district where foreigners congregated in the days of the foreign concessions ?
Du Yuesheng and his notorious Shanghai Green Gang ?
The novels of Eileen Chang ?
Big city, tricky ropes
Chen Pin opened his first business in Shanghai over ten years ago.
In the intervening years he has run a bread factory, restaurants, and a fast food shop.
His son is treated as a PRC citizen, and attends university in Shanghai.
A survivor of many ups and downs himself, Chen gives detailed descriptions of many of the problems faced by Taiwanese business persons in the mainland.
The book describes the property market, cross-strait marriage, starting a business, children's education, shopping, recreation, and more.
He does not stop at mere description, however.
He also offers suggestions on how to cope with a wide range of difficulties.
This book can serve as a " how to " manual for those who would follow in this footsteps.
Chen offers a lot of very useful insights into the Shanghai property market.
All land is owned by the state, so when you buy a building, you do n't gain outright ownership.
All you get is the right to use it.
Property in Shanghai is divided into various categories, and Chen explains various terms used in the PRC.
" Foreign business buildings " can be purchased by foreign-invested enterprises and persons with a foreign passport.
Buildings sold on the domestic market to PRC firms are called shang pin fang, or literally, " commercial buildings. "
Buildings owned by the state are called gong fang, or " public buildings. "
Buildings owned by private individuals are called si fang, or " private buildings. "
If you 've paid all your property taxes, you are given a da chan zheng, or " big " property certificate.
If you have n't yet paid, you can only get a " small " property certificate, and you ca n't sell your property.
Some buildings can be bought with a loan, but others ca n't.
Newly arrived Taiwanese business persons often make bad judgments if they plunge into the market without studying it carefully first, so Chen suggests the following rules of thumb : The Shanghai property market is in a slump, so there is no need to rush into a purchase.
A buyer must be very clear about the purpose of any property purchase.
It is safest to buy property from the Shanghai Municipal Government, the biggest and most reliable real estate developer in the city.
One must not estimate potential earnings on the basis of experience in Taiwan.
You get more for money when renting than when buying.
You must stand on your rights at all times, and be very careful not to let friends and relatives use their personal ties to take advantage of you.
Secrets to success
When hard-charging Taiwanese businessmen meet up with their smooth-talking Shanghai counterparts, the Taiwanese often come away with the short end of the stick.
From the vendors at open-air markets hawking crabs or pears, to the proprietors of five-star clubs that target a foreign clientele, everyone in Shanghai looks at Taiwanese business persons the same way :
" Oh boy, here comes an easy mark !
Let's skin him alive ! "
Chen laments, " The old lady at the market sells beans to everybody else at 80 cents per jin, but she jacks up the price on me to two dollars. "
And this is only a cut-and-dried business transaction.
Personal relationships and marriage get a lot more complicated.
Taiwanese men tend to fall like a ton of bricks for the pretty, sweet-talking women in Shanghai, and that signals the beginning of all sorts of problems.
Single men practically shout it out : " My girlfriend is in Shanghai. "
Those who already have wives in Taiwan will tell you in a low whisper : " I 've got a mistress in Shanghai, and I'm taking care of all her expenses. "
The women of Shanghai are well known for their liberated ways, and it is no simple matter for Taiwanese men there to handle their business and emotional affairs wisely.
Chen argues that allowing direct travel between Taiwan and the mainland would make it much more difficult for Taiwanese men to keep mistresses in the mainland, and would go a long way toward clearing up all the cross-strait marital and romantic problems that now occur so often.
Chen offers several pieces of advice for all who would head for Shanghai, whether alone or with their families.
Shopping :
" You should establish a reputation for being tight-fisted. "
When you buy things, pretend not to have as much money as they 're demanding.
Ask questions, and keep asking until you get clear answers before you pay anybody any money.
Also, keeping a low profile is a means of self-defense.
You should be careful not to flaunt knowledge or ability.
General attitude :
" The Taiwanese are considered uncultured boors in spite of their wealth.
Live down that image.
Be humble.
Get to know the daily lives of people in Shanghai. "
Looking out for No. 1 :
" You must understand that undercurrents in Shanghai are strong.
It's hard to stay afloat, and many people enjoy watching your struggle ; they 're hoping you 'll go under.
You have to understand the legal systems and government policies.
You have to know how to operate under the table.
Markets change overnight, and personal relationships are ambiguous.
Trust no one, for no one is looking to save you a penny or help you earn a bit extra.
You 're on your own. "
You 're not in Taiwan anymore
In both emotional and historical terms, Shanghai seems very near, but in fact it is a very unfamiliar place.
Our dreams, yearnings, and imaginings blind us to the truth, and this especially true of Taiwanese business persons.
The book's subtitle, A Meeting of " the Taiwanese Experience " and Shanghai Style, hints at the conflicts inherent in the relationship.
Although the people on the two sides of the Taiwan Strait share a common language and ethnicity, our long separation has given rise to sharply divergent values and ways of thinking.
When someone from Shanghai says, " This is n't a big problem, " you have to realize that he has just acknowledged that there's a problem, and it's up to you to figure out how serious it really is.
Taiwanese ways do n't fly in Shanghai.
Do you want to eat the famous steamed mantou buns at Nanxiang Restaurant ?
Shop for antiques ?
Visit Zhouzhuang, the so-called " Venice of the Orient " ?
Before you take off, do your homework.
Shanghai is a big city, after all, and there are plenty of " crouching dragons and hidden tigers " lurking in the shadows.
p. 102 Author : Chen Pin Shang Hsun Cultural Publishing Company Address : 132 Tali Street, Taipei Tel :-LRB-02-RRB-2338-0861 Fax :-LRB-02-RRB-2308-4608 Date published : October 2000 Price : NT$ 240