Little Three Links Presage New Era in Cross-Strait Relations
-LRB-Sharon Wutr. by Phil Newell-RRB-
The " little three links "-direct mail, transport, and commerce between the ROC islands of Kinmen and Matsu on the one side and the PRC on the other-were formally opened on January 2.
-LRB-They were originally supposed to start on January 1, but were postponed to the 2nd at the request of the PRC.-RRB-
This step is seen as setting the stage for the eventual opening of the full " three links "-direct mail, commerce, and transport between Taiwan proper and the PRC-and for Taiwan's entry into the World Trade Organization.
But the PRC has remained as chilly as ever, and it is uncertain what breakthroughs and benefits can be realized through the little three links.
It is expected that both Taiwan and the PRC will enter the WTO this year.
Looking ahead, with the alteration of the previous administration's " no haste " policy, cross-strait trade relations will enter a new era.
On December 20, Premier Chang Chun-hsiung declared that the opening of the little three links on January 1 was a major part of the government's mainland policy, and also the prelude to the full three links that will be implemented after WTO entry.
Tsai Ing-wen, chairwoman of the Mainland Affairs Commission-LRB-MAC-RRB-, says that the focus in the first stage of the little three links will be on the issues of public security and the local economy in Kinmen and Matsu.
The first step will be decriminalization and legalization of petty trade.
Only after observing the impact of the first stage on social order and local industries in Kinmen and Matsu will the second stage-opening of normal commercial activities-be considered.
As for the opening of the full three links, there is no particular timetable.
On December 18, MAC Vice-Chairman Teng Chen-chung stated that the government has already begun planning for the full three links.
Faced with questions raised by some legislators that the government is focusing on the little three links as a tactic to postpone the full three links, Teng declared that the full three links will definitely be implemented, but the first priority is to coordinate these with Taiwan's WTO entry, with secondary attention going to Taiwan's own needs.
Most media and commentators have been positive toward the little three links.
In an article published on December 25, the United Daily News declared that, given the trend of economic globalization, the opening of the three links across the Taiwan Strait should bring unprecedented growth in cross-strait economic ties.
In addition, promoting economic links is something that both sides find acceptable despite the frigid nature of the political relationship.
As the borderless global economy takes shape in the 21st century, the three links will help businesses expand their economic space and encourage industrial upgrading, with both sides benefiting.
But PRC economic experts note that, once both sides enter the WTO, the mainland's large market will be contested by firms from all over the world.
They say that the transfer of high technology firms from Taiwan to the PRC will aid in construction of a " Chinese economic grouping " which would raise the decision-making status of the two sides in international economic affairs.
On another front, in terms of tourism, in June of 2001 Taiwan expects to implement a new policy allowing mainland tourists to come to Taiwan.
This could be very significant in increasing exchanges and mutual understanding between the two sides.
Most opinion leaders in the PRC view this policy positively.
Beijing's China Travel Association says that mainland people can now travel for tourism to 15 regions or countries, and it is a shame that Taiwan-which is close geographically and shares a common language and heritage-has never been open for mainland travelers.
A recent opinion poll in the PRC shows that 25 million people there say that they would rather visit Taiwan than any other tourist destination.
Mt. Ali-LRB-Alishan-RRB-and Sun Moon Lake are the places in Taiwan they would most like to visit, and they also are looking forward to eating authentic Taiwan cuisine and drinking genuine " pearl milk tea. "
Unfortunately, not only have the mainland authorities not responded enthusiastically to the little three links, they have even attacked the policy.
On December 28, Zhou Mingtong, vice-director of the State Council's Taiwan Affairs Office, stated at a banquet for Taiwan media that the little three links are " small potatoes. "
Li Yafei, secretary-general of the PRC's Association for Relations Across the Strait, said that the mainland does n't even have the concept or term " little three links, " and that the key to the " three links " remains the " one China " principle.
Looking to future cross-strait interactions, the opening of the three links-LRB-at least for tourism and economic interactions-RRB-does not have to get bogged down in the debate over independence vs. reunification, and has in fact already become a new consensus between the two sides.
The success of the relevant government policies in conforming to public opinion and building healthy cross-strait relations, and the PRC's willingness to tone down the rhetoric and make peace the top priority, will be decisive in creating a win-win situation and in reinvigorating the economy.
p. 064
-LRB-facing page-RRB-
Though cross-strait relations remain frosty, this did not stop the Taiwan Poster Design Association from holding its 2001 Peace Poster Competition, with participants from both sides welcome.
-LRB-photo courtesy of the Taiwan Poster Design Association-RRB-
p. 065
Beautiful Mt. Ali-LRB-Alishan-RRB-is a place that many people from mainland China hope to visit
-LRB-photo by Diago Chiu-RRB-