Innocents Abroad
Educating Taiwanese Kids in the PRC
-LRB-Jackie Chenphotos by Diago Chiutr. by David Mayer-RRB-
When Taiwanese business people take up an expatriate lifestyle, the thing they worry about most is family matters, especially the education of their growing children.
For Taiwanese expatriates in mainland China, incompatibility between the Taiwanese and mainland education systems is the main reason why most of them do not move their families across with them.
In the city of Dongguan, located just over 40 kilometers east of Guangzhou, the ground has already been broken on a project to build the first school for Taiwanese children in mainland China.
There is an especially large Taiwanese expatriate community in the Dongguan area, and there are high hopes that the new school, scheduled to begin officially enrolling students in September, will go a long way toward solving the nettlesome problem of education.
" Sometimes I get to thinking that I 've achieved absolutely everything I set out to do in life, " says H. D. Ye, " then I take a look at my family's situation and it seems as though I have n't really done anything at all. "
As chairman of the board at Dongguan Primax Electronics Products, Ye has nine factories and over 4,000 employees under him.
Why would someone so successful be so down about his situation ?
Says Ye with a worried frown, " Recently my wife has been calling me a lot from Canada to talk about her problems trying to maintain discipline with our kids.
They 're getting out of control, and we 're afraid they might get into trouble.
They say it's tough to try and raise children as an expatriate, and I can sure attest to that. "
I'm doing this for you
Ye has worked hard for many years for the Taiwanese community in Dongguan, a subject he cares deeply about.
" I do n't care if it's nothing more than a thatched-roof cottage ; I want to get a school for Taiwanese children up and running. "
After stepping down from his former position as chairman of the Taiwan Businessmen Association of Dongguan-LRB-TBAD-RRB-, Ye took over as director of the Dongguan Taiwanese School Preparatory Committee.
Says Ye, " I'm even busier now than I was before. "
Of the more than 3,000 Taiwanese business people in Dongguan, less than 5 % have been joined by their families.
With the extended absence of these people from Taiwan, undisciplined children and lonely spouses " cause a lot of problems for families and society as a whole, " says Ye.
There are a number of reasons why family members are unwilling to move to the mainland-
some spouses have jobs in Taiwan, crime is a concern on the mainland, and the quality of medical care is not so good there.
For people with families, however, the key stumbling block is the quality of education.
Asks Sylvia Yang, deputy chairperson of the TBAD Women's Division, " What are we working to achieve, anyway ?
We want a better life for our children, of course. "
She adds that while the education system on the mainland is not so bad, Taiwanese people have a hard time getting used to the way of life there.
" How would you feel if your child learned from his classmates to cough up phlegm all over the place ?
Sorry, but that's not something you can get used to. "
Grumbles one businessman, " My kids have come home singing the national anthem of the PRC, and calling Chiang Kai-shek a thug and Lee Teng-hui a public enemy.
Now how do I handle something like that ? "
In the opinion of Norman Hsu, vice president of a foods company whose family of four had spent a few years in New Zealand before moving to Dongguan, " The first thing to do is ask the children their reason for saying such things.
Ask what their teachers say, and what they themselves think.
Then go on to give them your own views. "
While many consider Hsu's approach a very enlightened one, there is no denying that at the gut level the influence of mainland Chinese culture rubs the wrong way.
Comments one Taiwanese businessman, " You worry that your kid is going to become a communist. "
Taiwanese people in the mainland invariably wish to maintain their ties with Taiwan, and are particularly anxious to ensure that their children can integrate quickly into the school system back home once they return.
With the number of Taiwanese in Dongguan increasing in recent years, it was just a matter of time before a Taiwanese school was established.
Thanks to the vigorous advocacy of H. D. Ye, the TBAD began working seriously in 1994 to establish a school, but the difficulties were considerable.
They had to find land, funds, teachers, and much more.
With Taiwanese and mainland authorities at political loggerheads, the school's promoters had to jump through hoops every step of the way in seeking to hire teachers from Taiwan, use Taiwanese teaching materials, and appoint a Taiwanese person to the post of principal.
They also had to obtain the cooperation of the authorities in Taiwan.
Since the people in Dongguan were paying taxes in Taiwan and planning to run the school according to the Taiwanese system, they asked whether the Ministry of Education might not treat the school the same as any private school in Taiwan, and subsidize it accordingly.
Teacher seniority was also a major issue in the effort to get the school established ; if teachers from public schools were to teach in Dongguan, would they retain the seniority that they had built up in Taiwan ?
" If we had n't been able to hire experienced teachers, " notes Ye, " it would have seriously impaired the quality of our faculty. "
Ye continually stressed to authorities in both Taiwan and the mainland, " Politics is for the politicians.
In the meantime, our children need an education.
That's all we 're asking. "
The main obstacles were finally overcome by the end of 1999.
The mainland Chinese authorities have agreed to allow the use of Taiwanese teaching materials and faculty.
As for the appointment of a principal, TBAD vice chairman Andrew Yeh states, " I think the mainland authorities will handle the situation flexibly.
They 'll probably let us hire who we want as long as we agree to refer to the person as a director or something like that. "
The Dongguan city government has leased an 86,000-square-meter site to the association at an extremely low price, and the school's cornerstone was laid last year in a ceremony held on 3 November.
The school will begin admitting students this coming September and start classes in October.
The school will accept elementary and junior high school students at first.
The decision about whether to open senior high school classes will be made later depending on demand.
Where to send the kids ?
H. D. Ye notes that there are now about 400 children of Taiwanese expatriates in Dongguan who attend school in the mainland.
Greater than half attend mainland China's regular elementary and secondary schools, while the more affluent Taiwanese send their children to private schools for expatriate children.
Chang Mei-liang, chairperson of the TBAD Women's Division, is among the latter group.
After her elder son and daughter finished elementary school in Taiwan she sent them to a boarding school in Britain.
Her ten-year-old child is too young for that though, so she sends him to a school in Shenzhen for the children of Hong Kong expats.
The child only comes home once a week, and sending him to the school in Shenzhen costs several hundred thousand NT dollars per year.
The Hong Kong elementary school and the international school are both an hour or two away from Dongguan, and many of the Taiwanese in Dongguan want to be able to see their children every day.
This prompted a group of them to establish a private bilingual school called Little Oxford in February 1998.
The school admits children from kindergarten-LRB-age five-RRB-through grade five of elementary school.
Some of Little Oxford's 200 students-LRB-such as Norman Hsu's child-RRB-used to go to school in Shenzhen, while others have transferred in from the mainland Chinese public school system.
Little Oxford is very similar to the Taiwanese school being promoted by the TBAD.
Most of its teaching materials are very similar to those used in Taiwan's elementary schools, and of the 15 or so teachers there, three are from Taiwan.
The big difference is that classes are taught in both Chinese and English because the Taiwanese parents are very interested in seeing that their children learn English well.
According to Huang Su, executive director of Little Oxford, " A lot of parents keep after me to make sure that the children's education is exactly like the regular system in Taiwan, but I have to remind them that once you 've left in Taiwan, you 're not regular any longer. "
According to Huang, making the school a mirror image of those in Taiwan does not necessarily mean that you are running a good school.
The key is to provide an education that meets the needs of the students.
In addition to Taiwanese teaching materials, she has also incorporated some materials from the mainland and overseas into the curriculum.
Huang Su, who hails from Beijing, majored in English at university and is keenly interested in education.
She came to Dongguan after marrying a Taiwanese expat there, and it was the Taiwanese business community that asked her to run a school.
Little Oxford now has a very good reputation in the Taiwanese community.
In fact, some Taiwanese send their children to Little Oxford from as far away as Zhuhai-LRB-just opposite Macau on the other side of the Pearl River estuary-RRB-.
Huang has been deeply impressed by the deep concern that Taiwanese parents show for their children's education in the face of difficulties posed by living away from their native Taiwan.
One parent, for example, practically begged her to admit his six-year old child, explaining, " He's never had any playmates.
The only people he's ever been with are his nanny and some employees from the plant. "
The Taiwanese kids at Little Oxford come from many different backgrounds.
Some speak in a mixture of Chinese and English, while others speak and look just like any mainland Chinese child.
Many of them have transferred in and out of lots of different schools in the United States, Taiwan, and the mainland.
There is no trace of the world's cares on their faces though ; the thing they 're most concerned about is studying a little less and playing a little more.
One bespectacled child laments, " School is better in Canada because they do n't have to do so much homework.
There's too much homework in Taiwan and the mainland.
It's no fun. "
An older brother and sister, it turns out, have both lived overseas.
Huang stays in close touch with the Taiwanese parents.
Their children enjoy very comfortable homes and seem to have experienced much of the world, but the biggest problem is that " they are n't motivated and do n't understand why they should need to study. "
Another problem for the school is the lack of interesting things to do in Dongguan.
Unless teachers are very devoted to education, they are not likely to stay there long.
" It's all the more difficult, " notes Huang frankly, " to hold on to teachers from Taiwan, who ca n't help but compare their situation here with what they are accustomed to in Taiwan. "
The Taiwanese school will be faced with the same high turnover rate that has dogged Little Oxford.
Dongguan, cradle of scholars
With Little Oxford already in operation, why should the Taiwanese expats wish to establish a separate school for their children ?
Sylvia Yang points out that Little Oxford is a private school with limited space and teaching staff, and even without the boarding expenses charged in Shenzhen, the tuition at Little Oxford still costs RMB 38,000-LRB-NT$ 160,000-RRB-per semester, more than many Taiwanese parents can pay.
Says H. D. Ye, " We would like to get funding from both the Taiwan and mainland authorities to hold tuition down. "
Although the cornerstone has already been laid, Ye reports that not enough funds have been raised, nor have all the teachers been hired.
Although the picture generally looks pretty good, there is still much work to be done.
Expenses for the first few years are expected to reach NT$ 60 million, and only about NT$ 20 million has been raised so far.
Ye often speaks in Taiwan on the topic of investing in the mainland, something which he knows a lot about.
Says Ye jokingly, " I jack up my speaking fees to make extra money for the school. "
The TBAD is now considering funding the school through an endowment, shares in which would be sold to business firms.
The location for the school has already been selected.
It is a large site in the township of Zhongtang.
The lot is basically empty right now, but the roar of excavators fills the air, and the steel piles have already been driven.
The school grounds are located next to the ancient Beidi Temple, which is shaded by the leaves of a spreading banyan tree.
On the temple gate a fading couplet reads : " He who is truly dedicated to his endeavor will become a great master, and shall make of his surroundings a land of delight.
He who has achieved true wisdom shall make of his home a cynosure for great talent, no matter where he may be. "
The locals must have taken this message to heart over the years, because it is said that hometown scholars from Zhongtang often took the top spot in the imperial examinations of centuries past.
It is very gratifying that a place like Dongguan, with its abundant business opportunities, should also have a scenic spot so rich in scholarly tradition.
It is also exciting to look forward to the founding of a school for the Taiwanese business community.
Apart from making money, will the expatriates here create a " Taiwanese miracle " on the cultural front as well ?
p. 91
Little Oxford, a bilingual elementary school attended primarily by the children of Taiwanese expatriates, guards its entranceway closely.
A school bus takes students to and from school, and all visitors must announce themselves before entering.
p. 92
Little Oxford elementary school teaches classes in both Chinese and English, which is just what the Taiwanese expatriates want for their children.
p. 93
H. D. Ye is a key player in Dongguan's Taiwanese expatriate community.
He has played the lead role in establishing a Taiwanese school in Dongguan.
The community's ability to wrap up preparations and start construction in just two years is due in large part to Ye's energy and enthusiasm.