Rising Tide
-LRB-Chuang Chihtr. by Robert Taylor-RRB-
Taiwan is currently being gripped by a wave of nostalgia.
If the film In the Mood for Love, starring Maggie Cheung and Tony Leung, shows the face of Hong Kong in the 1960s, what Ko Ching-hua's book Rising Tide reveals is a story of old Taipei, and the author's little-known tragic and difficult childhood.
For old Taipei folk in their 50s and 60s, perhaps Ko Ching-hua's Rising Tide can help them rediscover the feel of that age which was theirs.
And for younger readers, reading the book can be a journey into the past.
Incredible !
This elegant gent before me, dressed in a silk shirt and a dark brown woolen suit with a light, fine check pattern, savoring his coffee and chatting about French films, this classical music lover with a penchant for refined European life, looks utterly the product of a comfortable, happy upbringing.
Who would have thought that a stream of bitterly painful childhood memories would flood through his book-memories that came as a complete surprise even to friends who know him well.
Author Wang Ting-chun writes in his review " The Tide Comes in for Ko Ching-hua " : " I have known Ko for many years, but I was quite unaware of the difficulties of his youth.
Looking back at his easygoing, elegant style, there was nothing about him to suggest he had ever endured hardship. "
Essayist Pan Jen-mu, however, has a much more emotional response :
" Reading Rising Tide reduced me to tears !
For he has expressed all the distress and privations of our youth. "
The images revealed in Rising Tide are many-faceted.
There are the joys and sorrows of the author's childhood and teenage years ; there are the twists and turns of his love, marriage and his first excursions into the literary world ; there is the nostalgia of an old Taipei resident for Taipei's past ; and there is also the beautiful story of a literary gardener tilling the soil of his dreams.
Ko Ching-hua-LRB-whose close friends call him " Old K "-RRB-can be called the doyen of Taiwan's literary world.
His ancestral home was in Yongjia, Zhejiang Province.
Born in Shanghai in 1937, at the age of seven he was taken by his parents to Kunshan in Jiangsu Province, to be looked after by a family named Gu.
They were rice farmers, and young Ko had to work in the fields, planting rice seedlings and so on.
When he was ten, his father brought him to Taiwan, via Shanghai.
After they disembarked at Keelung, Ko Ching-hua wept all the way as they walked from the pier, past Jen-ai Road and to their home in Ningpo West Street.
It was only when he heard the sound of Peking opera singing coming out of a square wooden box that he stopped crying and asked in bewilderment, " Is there someone in the box ? "
This moment of childish wonder raised the curtain on the drama of his life in Taiwan.
The poor fear moving house
However, he never imagined that the role he was called upon to play would be so lonely and dismal.
Recalling this time so many years later, he still feels pangs of nostalgia for his parents, despite their ill-treatment of him.
His mother and father did not get on well together, and after constant arguments they finally divorced.
Destitute, the family split up and went their separate ways.
Ko Ching-hua's father Ko Hao was a graduate of the foreign languages department at Hangzhou's Zhijiang University, and taught English at Taipei First Girls ' High School.
But in Ko Ching-hua's eyes, he was nothing but a spineless, gullible fool.
It was this spineless father who caused Ko's childhood to be spent in constant house moving.
In his book, Ko describes his feelings during that time thus : " The poor fear hunger, and also moving house. "
Their series of temporary homes even included an air raid shelter which kept out neither the wind nor the rain, and was not fit for human habitation.
Apart from the problem of accommodation which blighted Ko Ching-hua's childhood, as a teenager he had to do jobs like selling newspapers and delivering coal briquettes to earn his school fees, so he could finish his schooling.
Ko sums up the poverty which so often made him uncertain where his next meal was coming from, with the simple words : " Hunger is a beast with a painful bite. "
But what anguish lies behind those words !
Ko Ching-hua's status in Taiwan's publishing business goes without saying.
In the 25 years since he set up Elite Publishing, which specializes completely in works of literature, he has published many influential books, ranging from Wang Ting-chun's Open Life and Chi Chun's Dreaming with a Book for a Pillow to Chang To-wu's Horses and Foot-Soldiers and Yu Chiu-yu's A Bitter Cultural Journey.
Ko, who has spent his career publishing other people's books, had no idea that when he wrote the story of his own childhood it would elicit such a broad response among readers and literature lovers.
He says cheerfully : " I 've made others weep, but I 've made myself laugh. "
Writing the book was a cathartic experience which wiped away the sense of inferiority, the loneliness and the desolation he experienced as a child, so once the book was finished his mood was relaxed and happy.
No wonder Ko says he is now the happiest of men in an unhappy environment.
Walking amid the hubbub of Taipei today, on streets filled with people and traffic, Ko-nan Street, Shanghai Road, the Tri-Service Stadium and the Star Cafe have long since drifted away like the sound of Ko Lan's mambo song.
Once-familiar scenes are gone with the wind, leaving old Taipei resident Ko Ching-hua somewhat forlorn.
Ko, who likens himself to a peasant in an industrial society, has always insisted on publishing high-quality literature for the common man.
Speaking of the future, he says with a smile that he is planning a long novel.
This is surely something for all of us who love Ko Ching-hua's writing to look forward to.
p. 104
Title : Rising Tide
Author : Ko Ching-hua
Publishers : Elite Publishing Co.
Published November 2000
Price : NT$ 200
p. 105
No matter how the world about him changes, Ko Ching-hua perseveres in tilling the soil of his literary garden.
-LRB-photo by Diago Chiu-RRB-