Activities Mark International Human Rights Day
-LRB-Sharon Wutr. by Phil Newell-RRB-
Protecting human rights is one of the key policies of the new government.
Among the activities conducted in this vein, on December 10, 2000-International Human Rights Day-the Office of the President and the National Cultural Association co-sponsored a unique " human rights wedding ceremony. "
In addition, President Chen Shui-bian initiated a series of activities under the theme of Human Rights Week to remind Taiwan citizens of the importance of human rights.
In commemoration of International Human Rights Day on December 10, the Nationsl Human Rights Consultative Task Force of the Office of the President organized a series of activities to draw attention to this issue.
First up was a conference at National Taiwan University on the subject of reviewing the cases of persons persecuted as " communist spies. "
A lively discussion of the cases of Sun Li-jen and Kuo Ting-liang took place.
On December 9, a ceremony was held on Green Island, site of a former political prison, to commemorate the first anniversary of the construction of the Human Rights Memorial there.
On December 10 came the " human rights wedding ceremony " at the Taipei Guest House, and that same night an event to express " thanksgiving and respect " was held at the Taipei International Convention Center.
The Green Island Human Rights Memorial, completed a year ago, takes as its focus the determination that the terrible events of the past should never be repeated.
It reminds the people of Taiwan of the long period of " white terror " under which the island suffered, and hopes to raise humanitarian awareness.
Pesus Chou, executive secretary of the Human Rights Education Foundation, says that this year a further list of 180 victims was accepted, and there are now a total of 690 names of victims of political persecution engraved on the wall.
A number of victims and their family members also attended the ceremony, at which they presented a petition on behalf of more than 10,000 victims of political terror whose names can not be inscribed on the wall because of lack of official documentation of their cases.
They called for justice for these victims as well.
President Chen Shui-bian personally attended the anniversary event, and vowed to carry on the policy, initiated by the previous government, of apologizing to and caring for the victims.
He emphasized that his administration would abide by the International Declaration of Human Rights, the Citizens ' Public Trust Treaty, and the manifesto and action platform of the Vienna International Convention on Human Rights, so that Taiwan could be a part of the international human rights system.
He again called on the Legislative Yuan to codify international human rights law as domestic law, and declared that his government will also establish a National Human Rights Commission and work to build a society in which human rights are respected and protected.
On the morning of Human Rights Day, the National Culture Association and the well-known author Bo Yang-LRB-one of the prime movers behind the Human Rights Memorial-RRB-held a " human rights marriage ceremony. "
The event, conducted in beautiful weather at the Taipei Guest House, was attended by a number of couples from around Taiwan who chose this day to formalize their ties.
President Chen served as master of ceremonies.
During the ceremony, President Chen read out the eight vows drafted by Bo Yang for his " Human Rights Marriage Certificate, " extolling mutual respect for domestic human rights as the foundation of social stability.
Besides having President Chen serve as master of ceremonies, Bo Yang and Vice President Annette Lu served as honored guests, while Control Yuan President Frederick Chien and Minister of the Interior Chang Po-ya also had prominent roles.
Among those in attendance were Senior Advisor to the President Yu Chen Yue-ying, Minister of Education Ovid Tzeng, and Council for Aboriginal Affairs Chairman Yohani Iskakavut.
Representatives of various sectors of society, including dentists, lawyers, military personnel, civil servants, indigenous people, and the handicapped, were among the couples taking part in the ceremony, which was meant to be inclusive of and meaningful for all citizens.
With more than 100 guests and family members also joining in, there was fun to be had by one and all.
President Chen toasted the new couples and expressed his hope that they would soon give birth to " human rights babies " and act as pioneers in building a human rights society, creating models for the passing along of human rights education in the family.
p. 066
In the first " human rights wedding ceremony, " 36 couples took vows to respect each other's human rights, creating the first " human rights families. "