Paralympics Offer Stage for Taiwan Performers
Closing ceremonies for the 2000 Sydney Paralympics were held on October 29.
Nearly 4000 athletes from more than one hundred and twenty countries participated.
This event, a manifestation of the ideal that " the flame burns in the body, mind, and spirit of every individual, " broke down international barriers and was an admirable example of the global village in operation.
The ROC team took one gold, two silvers, and four bronzes, marking the first time any Taiwan athlete has returned from an Olympic games with a gold.
Also, as part of the events, Taiwan's Crescent Moon Dance Troupe, made up of handicapped persons, was the only foreign troupe invited by the Australian government to participate in the Paralympic Arts Festival.
But even more important than these honors was the spirit of overcoming all obstacles and facing life with courage that shone through during the Paralympics.
The just-completed Paralympics were enriched by ethnic flavorings.
The opening ceremony on October 18 was in the form of a welcoming for aboriginal elders.
Amidst a festive atmosphere, the athletes entered the stadium by categories-one group in wheelchairs, another on crutches, another led by guide dogs.
The events at the 12-day Paralympics were packed with spectators.
The 1.1 million tickets sold show the extent to which everyone took the games seriously.
The host government even set up a huge TV screen in Darwin, which is the port of entry for the most visitors to Australia, to broadcast the games live.
The games were also a platform for the idea of the welfare state caring for disadvantaged groups, and for emphasizing how handicapped persons can break through barriers and limitations.
On October 14, Taiwan's Crescent Moon Dance Company created a sensation with their performance " Standing on the Highest Peak, " performed in traditional vests and short skirts as worn by indigenous people in Taiwan.
After the 10-minute performance ended, the hall was rocked by thunderous applause.
The standing ovation lasted three minutes, and some people were even moved to tears.
The Crescent Moon Dance Company has only been in operation for four years.
Organized by a group of amputee women on a nonprofessional basis, it is the world's first dance troupe of its kind.
As its manifesto reads : " One with no voice may nonetheless sing.
One with no wings may nonetheless soar.
One with no limbs may nonetheless dance.
The crescent moon and the full moon are the moon just the same, and equally beautiful. "
The troupe also delighted Sydney citizens with a performance at the Sydney City Hall on October 19.
In the competition, host country Australia took the most medals, including 64 golds
.
Among the ROC's medals, the gold-the first ever for Taiwan-was won by Chiang Chih-chung.
With a throw of 57.28 meters, Chiang shattered the world record for the javelin in the F12 visually-impaired class.
Chiang, a member of the Bunun indigenous people, received a traditional hero's welcome home from the Bunun of Sanmin Rural Township in Kaohsiung County.
During the festivities, which were both moving and fun, tribal elders sang warrior songs and praised Chiang for his glorious deeds.
Meanwhile, the ROC table tennis team twice made it to the finals, but fell just short of the gold each time.
In the wheelchair men's doubles class 5 event, Chou Chang-sheng and Lin Yen-hung took the silver, while Chou won another silver in the men's singles.
The men's class 9 team for persons with non-leg-related disabilities and the women's wheelchair team of combined classes 4 and 5 took bronzes in team events, while Li Ching-chung-LRB-men's judo class 1-RRB-and Lu Li-hua-LRB-women's powerlifting class 1-RRB-garnered individual bronzes.
Among Asian countries, South Korea turned in the best performance, taking five gold medals.
This was due in part to the fact that the ROK government has provided special coaching in wheelchair table tennis to soldiers injured in service.
Indeed, many handicapped competitors from other nations besides the ROK were retired veterans.
Their pensions allow them free time to train, and through athletics they bring meaning to their lives and glory to their countries.
Taiwan team members, on the other hand, come from a variety of backgrounds, and train out of personal interest.
They must give up working if they wish to train full-time.
The South Korean team of veterans, by overcoming their injuries to give a display of athleticism at the international level, have emerged from the shadow of war and transformed their handicaps into glorious results.
This example should provide food for thought to the disabled and sports communities in the future.