A Gao Xingjian Storm Blows through the TIBE
-LRB-Laura Litr. Scott Williams-RRB-
The ninth Taipei International Book Exhibition-the " first book exhibition of the millennium "-got underway this year in the comfortable afterglow of the Lunar New Year's holiday.
Highlighting this year's show was a visit by Nobel-Prize-winning author Gao Xingjian from his adopted country, France.
According to Gao, Taiwan feels almost like home.
Moreover, his affinity for Taiwan and its affection for him left a good impression at this year's TIBE.
Gao's old friend Lung Ying-tai, director of the Taipei Bureau of Cultural Affairs, nonetheless thanked him for his visit and for re-igniting Taiwan's passion for literature.
Gao Xingjian, the first Chinese Nobel Laureate for literature, created quite a stir with his visit to the ninth Taipei International Book Exhibition-LRB-TIBE-RRB-, drawing large crowds of people hoping just to catch a glimpse of him.
Gao's relationship with Taiwan goes back a number of years, and this visit to the TIBE marked his sixth to the island, where he is well known and has many friends in the literary community.
A Bible in hand
Taiwan's United Daily News Publishing spotted Gao's talent long before he became famous, publishing five of his novels-including Soul Mountain and One Man's Bible.
In addition, the famed director Li Hsing's Tienti Publishing has published a collection of Gao's plays.
And at this year's TIBE, Gao released three new works to hungry Taiwanese readers : a collection of 100 ink paintings and pieces of art criticism ; a play ; and a collection entitled Without isms.
In the past, Gao's works of fiction have not sold particularly well, perhaps because some find them to be cold or to resemble to long, mumbling soliloquies.
At this year's TIBE, however, the glow of Gao's Nobel Prize sparked interest in his work.
Over the exhibition's six days, readers purchased between five and six thousand volumes of his Soul Mountain, making it one of the exhibition's top three sellers-LRB-along with former Japanese porn star Iijima Ai's Platonic Sex and the latest Harry Potter book-RRB-.
Whether Taiwanese readers were just putting on airs or actually enjoyed the book, if the Gao frenzy reinvigorates Taiwanese interest in pure literature, it will have done a world of good.
Gao's own artistic life extends beyond fiction to painting and theater.
Over the past few years he has held two Taiwanese exhibitions of his modern ink paintings, and a third is planned for October at the National Museum of History.
In addition, a special reading of Gao's The Night Walker was given at the Novel Hall in Taipei, during this visit of his.
And Gao himself will direct a performance of his August Snow at the end of the year.
The refined language of literature
Having a chance to see Gao in person, TIBE visitors naturally focused on his artistic vision and creative process.
In a speech presented at the exhibition, Gao stated that over the course of decades of writing, he has given ever-greater attention to the heart of literature-the art of language.
To Gao, the only standard for judging literature is the beauty of its language, and language itself is a means of getting at " reality. "
Gao refers to his own approach to writing as " stream-of-language " and believes that writers who seek a vivid, modern Chinese face an extremely difficult path.
Gao also revealed that to ensure that his own writing remains fresh and lively, he first speaks his thoughts into a recorder before later recasting them in a written form.
Gao Xingjian feels that writing is an extremely personal pursuit, that its starting point is a quest for personal values.
If a writer is to produce good work, he must cast aside political and social missions, disregard the opinions of readers and the market, and instead must write spontaneously, listening carefully to the faintest, most honest voice in his heart.
Considering that Gao fled a tyrannical government to become an expatriate, many people wonder whether Gao's literature insists upon humanitarianism and high principles.
But Gao feels that literature is above politics and should not serve it.
Further, literature should not be limited by morals, ethics or public sentiment.
In Gao's view, 20th century literature too often emphasized " literary revolution " or was " revolutionary literature. "
It was too often tied to a preposterous sense of mission which took literature with it to the grave.
As Gao said at the Nobel Prize awards ceremony, Communist rule stymied the development of mainland Chinese literature.
Not surprisingly, the Chinese Communists were critical of the selection of Gao as a Nobel Laureate, labeling his choice an " imperialist conspiracy " and another " insult to all Chinese " by the West.
This standoff between the Nobel laureate and his cultural motherland adds a note of regret to the joy of Chinese people around the world.
Soul Mountain and the flesh
Given that Gao wrote his works in Chinese, his translator played a major role in his winning of the Nobel prize.
Goran Malmqvist, a member of the Swedish Royal Academy and Gao's strongest advocate for the Nobel Prize, and Noel and Liliane Dutrait, the French translators of Soul Mountain and other works by Gao, also attended this year's TIBE.
To reflect the growing internationalization of Chinese literature, this year's TIBE even included a Taiwanese Literature in Translation pavilion.
The pavilion hosted a number of seminars and colloquia on literary translation, providing readers with some insight into a field with which most are unfamiliar.
Gao has touched off another interesting debate in Taiwan-one on the competing desires of the spirit and the flesh.
Discussing Gao together with former Japanese porn star Iijima Ai causes many cultural critics to shake their heads, but the two writers ' works are not that dissimilar.
While Soul Mountain describes one man's spiritual journey, it also contains numerous graphic descriptions of sexual desire.
Similarly, Ai's book on the flesh actually expresses her longing for spiritual love.
These two works remind us that the spirit and the flesh are both aspects of being human and that the distance between these two " opposing desires " is not as great as most people seem to think.
While Gao Xingjian is the first Nobel Laureate in literature to have attended the TIBE, this year's exhibition included a number of other highlights.
With 46 nations and 886 publishing companies represented, TIBE is the largest book show in Asia and the fourth largest in the world.
This year's TIBE was also made special by having France as its Country of Honor.
Guests thus included Andrei Makine, the Russian-born French author of Le Testament Francais and winner of France's prestigious Goncourt Prize ; novelist Marc Levy ; and the cartoonist Golo.
In addition, numerous representatives from France Edition and Librairie Le Pigeonnier were involved with the exhibition from start to finish, contributing greatly to its success.
The Book Publishing Development Association of the ROC, which sponsored the TIBE this year, noted that it chose France as the Country of Honor in response to the Americanization of global culture.
The Association stated that it hoped the choice of France would give Taiwan's readers a glimpse of European culture, offering them exposure to an alternative perspective and system of thought.
Of course, the fact that Gao is now a French citizen and happened to win the Nobel Prize for literature just two months before the show did n't hurt either.
p. 62
Nobel laureate Gao Xingjian and long-time advocate of his work Goran Malmqvist were the stars of this year's Taipei International Book Exhibition.
Mediated by Taipei Bureau of Cultural Affairs director Lung Ying-tai, the two held a lively discussion.
-LRB-photo by Pu Hua-chih-RRB-