New Rules for Tech Startups
-LRB-Cyril Chianggraphics by Tsai Chih-pentr. by Jonathan Barnard-RRB-
In the past few years the Internet has helped to create a " new economy " that has both created technological fortunes and rewritten the postulates of traditional economic development.
Microsoft's Bill Gates did n't make his money out of land or gold or oil, and he did n't make it from machines or factory goods.
Rather, what he had at his disposal was a method of organizing knowledge.
Precisely because entrepreneurs no longer need land or financial assets, the bar has never been lower for what is needed to build a successful company.
Yet it's worth noting that the rate of success has also never been lower.
If you want to get investors to open their wallets in this new economic age, then you 've got to have a handle on some key points.
If investors ' eyes have n't brightened in three minutes, it's all over.
Those hoping to build up a new company have got to know how to capture investors ' attention in the shortest possible time.
What is the right thing to say ?
How should you say it ?
The following 13 questions are what investors are most concerned about.
If you can focus on these 13 points of business startup logic and then add your own creative vision and arguments, then you 've probably taken your first step to success !
Question # 1 : How do you define your business ?
Successfully defining a business is a process of elimination.
In the late 1980s, Intel realized that it could no longer compete with Japanese semiconductor companies in the production of memory chips, so it left that market, believing that it would only be able to break free from Japanese competition by focusing on its specialty of microprocessors.
It is now a larger company many times over.
This is a story of how " loss " can turn into " gain. "
" Elimination " suggests paring down.
The more clearly a company is defined, the more limited will be its operational scope.
But just about any successful company has a clear sense of its limitations, because otherwise it would n't be able to differentiate itself in the marketplace and reduce its vulnerablility to price wars.
Consequently, it is essential to pay attention to the following points :
1. No matter how complex your company, it must have a basic conception that is clear and easy to understand.
2. The company's definition is a reflection of its operational strategies.
3. An unclear company definition represents unclear operational strategies.
4. You 've got to clearly define your role based on the value of your products and services and get the consumer to understand what makes you better.
5. Differentiation is good and works to your advantage.
Question 2 : What is your executive summary ?
An executive summary serves as a preface to an investment or business plan.
It needs to faithfully reflect the special qualities and values of the entire plan in as few words as possible.
As far as investors are concerned, a clear, easy-to-read two-page summary is much better than a tedious 200-page plan.
Steve Jurvetson, managing director of the Silicon Valley venture capital firm Draper, Fisher, and Jurvetson, says : " An executive summary is n't a financial contract ; it's a story.
A story has to have drama and flesh-and-blood people.
For an executive summary, I 've never used Excel, and I 've never talked about models for the financial structure.
I always spend my time thinking about how big a story it could become. "
Therefore, you 've got to pay attention to the following :
1. The executive summary is the one chance you have to get investors interested in investing in your company.
2. Focus on selling your plan.
3. Get right to the point.
Do n't think of it as a literary competition.
4. In an orderly fashion, describe " the market, the management team, the finances and the technology. "
Question # 3 : What's the justification for this business ?
The Japanese management guru Matsushita Konosuke has said, " Do n't sell customers things they find attractive, sell them things they find useful. "
Investors have a lot of different cards they can play, so they 've got to know why your business plan is worth pursuing.
Why now ?
Why you ?
Consequently, you must consider the following points :
1. Why should this be done ?
Why should you do it ?
Why now ?
2. The dollar sign-LRB-$-RRB-is capitalism's lingua franca.
3. The market will decide whether your plan is justifiable.
Question # 4 : How much risk are you willing to take on ?
Are you willing to risk failure ?
When you try to get people to invest in a new venture, there will invariably be one question that each and every one of those potential investors will have in mind :
" You want to put my money at risk, but what kind of risk are you taking ? "
Investors hope that the entrepreneur is taking equal risk, because only with commensurate risk will the two sides cooperate unselfishly.
Therefore, the entrepreneur must be very clear about the risk and the possibility of losing the investment.
What follows are the values of a Silicon Valley new-age knowledge-based business creator :
1. A failure is like the South in the American Civil War.
It's history ; move on.
2. Those who have experience beat those who lack experience, and failure counts as experience.
3. Your past failure is your MBA from the school of hard knocks.
4. Failure is not rare or unusual.
You will only be successful by continuing to try.
You 've got to be careful about the following :
1. The investor and entrepreneur have to be taking similar risks if they are to cooperate selflessly.
2. Have you already put in time and money ?
3. Are you willing to forgo the security of a stable job and income ?
4. You can not pack a parachute and be thinking of a safe way to bail.
5. Having failed previously with startups does not mean a person is a loser.
Question # 5 : What are your company goals and business model ?
Morris Chang, chairman of Taiwan Semiconductor, believes that a company's core staff ought to be on the same page.
They should share the same vision for the company and fit into its corporate culture.
The company goals should n't be pie-in-the-sky dreams.
Since the company has got to crystallize the investors ' and staff's talents and energies, its vision for the future has to be attainable.
Apart from having a vision for the future, a company also needs a business model.
The business model is the way that the company plans to attain its goals.
A good business model can even realize visions of the future that seem impossible.
Priceline.com, the first American company to sell airline tickets directly over the Internet, surpassed the combined market capitalization of the three largest US airlines-LRB-United, American and Delta-RRB-after only two years of operations.
The three airlines have a total of 1,400 jets, whereas Priceline only has computers and network servers.
The key to its success was its business plan.
Therefore, you have to consider the following :
1. How do you outline where the company will be in three to five years ?
This is the company's vision.
2. How do you realize the company's vision ?
This is the business model.
3. The company's vision is built on faith, and it requires the possibility of realization.
4. Once the company's vision is defined, one should n't change it lightly.
The business model on the other hand can be constantly adapted in accordance with circumstances.
Question # 6 : How do you present your technology and service ?
Introducing the company's technology to investors is something that the company founder should be very familiar with, but it is also is the source of conflicting feelings.
How should a founder of a start-up go about explaining its technology so that investors can understand it without getting so detailed as to reveal company secrets ?
Here are some recommendations :
1. You have to be able both to describe your innovation and protect your own intellectual property.
2. Do n't request a non-disclosure agreement, because this is unprofessional.
3. Investors are not intent on stealing your ideas.
Instead they want to see that you can justify them.
Question # 7 : What sort of problems do you want to solve ?
What problems is your company plan trying to solve ?
If you ca n't answer this clearly, then maybe you should be worrying about your future.
Taiwanese entrepreneurs are facing the problem of having an incomplete chain of value, which is a result of their customers handling the activities with the greatest added value.
This is a result of the problem, not its cause !
The real problem is that entrepreneurs in Taiwan do not make clear enough definitions when trying to resolve a problem, or they narrowly look at " manufacturing " as a way of solving the problem.
Raising one's ability to innovate means raising one's ability to solve problems.
This leads us to the following conclusions :
1. Finding a solution is finding a profitable market base.
2. You can only solve the problem by finding the problem.
3. Put your energies into solving today's problems.
4. The problems created by your actions should not exceed the problems solved.
Question # 8 : Is the team complete ?
Who is missing ?
Founders of startups will always build their own management team, and they almost always start with people around them and then move on to attract personnel from outside.
This creates a blind spot in the structure, with like-minded people grouped together.
Investors like to hear entrepreneurs say that their teams are incomplete, because it shows that they have a practical mentality, and that they are aware of and willing to face their own shortcomings.
Good investors ought to maintain a mutually supportive relationship with the management team, but the investors are certainly not just the management team's rubber stamp.
As a start-up founder, you ought to clearly understand that you are providing your knowledge and youth and the investors are providing their money.
The investors have no reason to want to handicap the entrepreneur.
In other words, there should be a supportive relationship between the investors and the management team, rather than an obstructive one.
We urge those who are creating a startup to understand where you come up short and be willing to ask for help.
Question # 9 : Where are your customers ?
How do you get hold of them ?
To answer this question, you 've got to focus on your " market segment. "
Secondly, you should analyze why customers in your market segment would like to do business with you.
You 've also got to consider how to prevent competitors from taking customers within the same market segment or how to effectively create entry barriers, so that you will be able to maintain a competitive advantage for as long as possible.
A price war is the simplest strategy, but consequently its effects are the most limited.
You should instead consider how to avoid the slippery slope of price wars.
What's more, if you find that major changes in your sector are usually coming from other people's customers, you should realize that they probably are n't your customers because they do n't need your products or can get something better.
To figure out why, you 've got to remind yourself to do the following :
1. Focus your attention on the market segment.
2. A good product or service will actively create a market segment and find customers that did n't previously exist.
3. Of course, any customer of yours sees some value in you.
How they value you determines their expectations of you.
4. Do n't forget about " non-customers. "
Do n't fall into the trap of thinking that you understand everything about the industry.
Question # 10 : Where are your competitors ?
Please do n't say that you have no competitors.
Perhaps you have no competitors today, but you will have them tomorrow.
And if you really do n't have weighty competitors, then your competitor is yourself.
Entry barriers and exit barriers have opposite effects.
The former determines if there will be a swarm of competitors.
-LRB-If entry barriers are low, anyone can compete.-RRB-
The latter determines whether there will be detrimental competition.
-LRB-If exit barriers are high, competitors will fight to the last penny.-RRB-
If you want to maintain core compet-itiveness, the first thing you 've got to do is to eliminate business that does not relate to your core competencies.
Furthermore, you should put the emphasis on innovation and strategic management.
Please remember :
1. When you analyze entry barriers, you should also analyze exit barriers.
2. You should focus on your " core competencies. "
3. You should use core personnel, develop core technology and attain core goals.
Question # 11 : What is your market share ?
In America telephones reached 90 % of households in 50 years, whereas it only took video recorders 18 years to do the same.
Today, new technological products and services are unlikely even to be around that long.
If technological entrepreneurs do not move forward, they fall behind.
Developing the company-LRB-and extremely fast at that-RRB-is a road that must be taken, and market share is an indication of the speed of the company's development.
The " killer " strategy must combine " quickly changing the rules of the game " with management thinking that is characterized by a " willingness to take risks, " " unconventionality, " and " a determination to become the standard. "
Your determination as the founder of the company is all-important.
You 've got to pay attention to the following :
1. How should your company prepare to develop quickly ?
2. Not only must you advance technologically if you are not to fall behind, but you must also develop quickly.
3. There is a fine line between ambition and wishful thinking.
4. The underlying logic is more important than the results.
Question # 12 : When will you break even ?
How do you read financial clues ?
How do you transform your company ?
In the Internet economy, companies that are not among the leaders are going to have a rough go of it.
Therefore, merging-LRB-or being acquired-RRB-at the right price is more important than staying in business forever.
In order to prepare for a merger at any moment, financial officers must get used to the idea that " the company itself is its our biggest product. "
In the past, financial officers focused on cost management, cash flow, capital movement and risk avoidance.
From now on, looking at these wo n't be enough, and financial officers ought to turn their attention to mergers and raising capital.
If you want to raise capital, you 've got to explain how it is going to be used.
If you are going to pursue acquisitions, you have to evaluate assets.
Traditionally you raised capital in order to expand the scope of your business.
Internet companies, on the other hand, raise capital to increase the value of the company before acquiring or being acquired.
Value in the Internet economy is determined by the business model.
It is very possible that the a company will lack tangible assets upon which to evaluate worth.
As a result, " reading the value of the business plan " has to take the place of the traditional work of checking the books.
The value of the business model is in looking toward the future, not the present, and as a result most mergers take the form of stock swaps so as to preserve cash reserves.
In order to obtain the best rate of exchange, it is important to be traded on the market as soon as possible.
With this lack of clarity, " breaking even " becomes the ultimate financial indicator.
This series of changes has had a huge impact on financial officers.
The founder of a startup must :
1. Pay attention to cash and cash flow.
2. Forget about staying in business forever.
Be prepared at all times to sell the company for the highest profit.
Question # 13 : How should a startup entrepreneur handle communications and the media ?
Communication and media skills are certainly no less important than technology for a startup company.
The professional managers of listed companies frequently come face to face with non-professionals.
Speaking to the media is just one example.
With regard to communication and the media, the main things to do are to simplify and speak in language that your listeners will understand.
Excellent communicators first of all know how to " listen, " and secondly can think logically and learn quickly.
You 've got to take an open and objective attitude in order to understand the background of a question, and then respond by focusing on the questioner's needs.
You must never force others to dance at your expert pace.
Do n't overestimate your listeners ' specialized knowledge, but do n't underestimate their general intelligence.
From the very beginning, founders of startups have got to get into the habit of :
1. Cultivating explanation skills, so that you can explain specialized knowledge to non-specialists and they can get the gist.
2. Practicing how best to communicate.
Citing a good example is usually the best way to explain something.
Guy Kawasaki, founder of Garage.com, the largest US company focusing on attracting venture capital for startups, has long been famous in Silicon Valley for his entrepreneurial enthusiasm.
In a speech he delivered in the US in May he outlined the main points in his vision of new-age entre-preneurialism :
In the 19th century, companies in the ice business would send people to frozen lakes or rivers to saw up the ice.
These companies were replaced by ice making factories.
Then refrigerators replaced ice factories.
If these businessmen had embraced change instead of resisting it, they would have had an opportunity to move into a new technological field-rather than just watching helplessly as others took over what was once their domain.
Change is the only constant on the way to success !