It's the " Knowledge-Based " Economy, Stupid !
-LRB-Laura Liphotos by Jimmy Lintr. by Phil Newell-RRB-
A saying has it that " knowledge is power. "
But here at the turn of the century, people are discovering that knowledge is more than just power ; it is also profit.
Responding to the new realities, the Executive Yuan has put forward a plan to develop Taiwan's " knowledge-based economy " which aims to double per capita income within ten years.
This plan embraces the long-term economic goals of the new administration.
But what is covered under the rubric of developing the knowledge-based economy ?
What conditions are required to be successful ?
Does Taiwan meet these criteria ?
Did you know that 90 % of the knowledge in the world has been produced in the half century since the end of World War II ?
And in 20 years, what we know today will be only one percent of the total knowledge bank of our children !
" It is estimated that the pool of human knowledge doubled once every fifty years in the 19th century, and about once every ten years in the 20th century.
Now it doubles once every three to five years, " notes Wu Se-hwa, dean of the business school at National Chengchi University.
The explosive growth of information is the most distinctive feature of the 20th century, and has brought sweeping changes to the world's political, social, and economic structure.
Profit defines value
In 1992, shortly after US president Bill Clinton took office, he declared that emphasis should be placed on research and development and on creating a " new economy. "
It turns out that these last eight years in the US have been a golden age of high economic growth, falling unemployment, and stable prices.
In 1996, the OECD coined the term " knowledge-based economy, " and many governments have jumped on the bandwagon since.
You can call it the " new economy " or the " knowledge-based economy " or whatever, but what is it really ?
How can such an economy be created ?
Because each country has different development needs, there are many different answers to these questions.
Wu Se-hwa points out that the term " knowledge-based economy " refers to any economic activity based on the production or application of knowledge, in which " knowledge " includes all kinds of technology, patents, management know-how, and individual creations.
It is not important how profound or esoteric the knowledge may be ; what matters most is turning that knowledge into a product which can earn a profit.
Looking back at the economic history of the West, in 16th century society, agricultural products were the key to wealth and power.
Whoever had the most, and most fertile, land was in a dominant position.
In the industrial age, capitalists who commanded the wealth to buy machinery and hire workers, or who owned critical resources like coal and oil, replaced landowners as the dominant figures in the economy.
But today, whoever owns systematized knowledge will win out over his or her competitors.
When Lester Thurow, the well-known economist from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, came to Taiwan to give a lecture a half year ago, he pointed to the Microsoft Corporation as a prime example : Microsoft owns no farmland, no oil fields, no expensive and sophisticated factories, and no shops of its own.
Its product fits onto a tiny microchip.
Yet this company, relying only on the brainpower of several thousand engineers sitting in front of computers writing programs, has earned billions upon billions of dollars for owner Bill Gates.
It is estimated that 300 million persons use Microsoft Windows each day around the world, with annual revenues reaching US$ 25 billion.
Knowledge petrie dish
In the past, Chinese people discovered much knowledge and invented much technology, but, influenced by the Confucian belief that profit was not a worthy application of wisdom, never converted these into commercial products.
But in the face of today's dramatic global economic transformation, there is no choice but to try to turn knowledge into profit.
And the thing that links knowledge with profit is information technology-LRB-IT-RRB-.
Hsu Wen-hsing, founder of Smartek Engineering, whose company has twice won national awards in Taiwan for its fingerprint verification device, says that human history can be seen as the history of information.
When Marco Polo visited the East in the 13th century, if he had not left a written account of his travels, it would have been a virtually wasted trip.
The recent enthusiasm for the Taipei exhibition of terracotta warriors from Xi'an is due to the fact that these long-buried figures contain information about mysteries dating back 2000 years.
Hsu Wen-hsing points out that in the past information was always tied to material objects, and remained in the hands of the few.
When the material objects disappeared, so did the information they contained.
But now, thanks to IT, for the first time in history information can be forever stored in huge volume, ready and waiting to be manipulated, exchanged, and even sent across great distances.
IT is like a petrie dish.
Information cells swim around in it, and can divide, recombine, reproduce, and copy themselves without limit, opening up entirely new possibilities for the accumulation and application of knowledge.
For example, computers are capable of finding numbers hidden under or scattered throughout a huge pile of data which is impenetrable to the human brain, and can analyze and clarify these numbers into useful know-how.
" One order form is not information.
But, by using a computer to save, connect, and search individual order forms, one can draw a thread through tens of thousands of them, and discern their regularities and variations.
Now that's knowledge, " declares Simon Chang, president of Acer CyberCenter Services.
At a glance you can find information such as regional and seasonal variations in sales, or market acceptance of a given product.
And if there is a problem, it can be identified immediately, avoiding guesswork and wasted time.
Everyone a multibillionaire !
In the information world, everyone is equal.
Though huge multinational corporations may have an edge in terms of information technology, since the rapid growth of the Internet in the 1990s, ' little guys ' whom no one has ever heard of before-relying only on programming ability, creativity, and hard work-have had the space to bring their talents into play.
The best-known example is Yahoo, the world's number one web portal.
It all started with two Stanford PhD students looking for a way to categorize the websites online, who came up with a great idea for a way to make finding information easier for Internet users.
With this idea, after six years of hard work, today Yahoo has a market value of US$ 50 billion.
Over the past five years profits have grown at a rate of 9800 %, which has got to be some kind of record.
However, though knowledge may be profitable, its value is subject to severe fluctuation.
George Tsao, assistant vice president of the Knowledge Management Center at Winbond Electronics Corporation, notes that in the past you could determine the worth of a company by adding up its fixed assets-LRB-such as land and factories-RRB-and liquid assets-LRB-such as cash-RRB-, with each calculable down to the last penny.
But knowledge is intangible.
Two different software packages burned onto identical chips can have grossly different values.
Sometimes it all depends on luck or fads.
The dramatic rise and fall of US software stocks this past year reflects the difficulty of assessing the value of knowledge.
Wu Se-hwa points to Intel as a prime example of how knowledge can " convert silicon to gold. "
A name-card sized CPU is in fact just a chipboard with complicated circuitry, with a unit cost of less than US$ 35.
But because it includes unique information that makes the computer run, and carries the authority of " Intel inside, " it can fetch over US$ 1000 in the marketplace, many times the cost of production.
What about Taiwan ?
Clearly there is already a global trend in which an information economy is taking shape.
What advantages does Taiwan have for playing a larger role in this realm ?
Simon Chang, who left the job of director of planning at the National Science Council only six months ago to enter the private sector, points out that the knowledge-based economy basically deals in information technology, and the IT industry is the most profitable region in the emerging geography of the knowledge-based economy.
Taiwan currently ranks fourth in the world in value of IT production, and, if you include the plants established by Taiwan investors across the globe, Taiwanese-controlled firms lead the world in manufacturing of IT hardware.
In other words, Taiwan has a solid manufacturing base and a large pool of high quality human resources on which it can rely to develop the knowledge-based economy.
Also, Taiwan has a strong education system.
The results of a recent international survey measuring the performance of junior high school students in natural sciences and math show that Taiwan kids finished first in the former and third-LRB-behind only Singapore and Korea-RRB-in the latter.
Alice Chang, CEO of CyberLink Corporation, whose firm has become a much-coveted new entry in the stock market and has drawn international attention with audio-visual software like Power DVD and Talking Show, says : " Talented people are at the root of knowledge. "
AV software is very difficult to produce, and staff must have a solid grounding in math.
This is where Taiwan is at an advantage.
However, though Taiwan has its strong points, there are also a number of problems and shortcomings.
" The first thing to consider, says Wu Se-hwa, " is this :
What kind of knowledge-based economy is Taiwan most suited to ? "
Wu says that right now what the government is focusing on and what stock market players most hope for is a US-style " new economy. "
The focus is on new industries, such as software and the Internet, or communications technology, fiber-optics, biotechnology, and the like.
But can the American model be reproduced in Taiwan ?
There is little reason to be optimistic.
The new economy in the US depends heavily, for one thing, on a deep foundation of basic scientific research, which comes up with revolutionary products like genetically modified foods.
Another key factor is that the US has a mechanism for innovation and entrepreneurship, so that new ideas have a chance to be brought into play.
The rapid growth in the new economy has driven a decade-long economic boom in the States.
The old manufacturing economy has naturally been trimmed back, with factories relocating overseas, but American firms can depend on the rights to technology to earn a profit.
Pearl Tan, public relations manager at Applied Materials Taiwan, a subsidiary of the giant US semiconductor equipment manufacturer of the same name, points to a prime example : DRAM, the hottest industry in Taiwan, which was a monopoly of the US firm Texas Instruments.
Tan notes that although DRAM factories are closing one after another in the US, patent royalties must still be paid to Texas Instruments for each and every one of the more than 100 million DRAMs produced around the world annually.
This is a classic " knowledge goose that lays golden eggs. "
The new economy is a weapon by which the US dominates the world, with " the export of knowledge " replacing the export of goods.
Yet, in the entire world, only the US, Japan, and the UK export more technology than they import.
In other words, only these three countries have a surplus in " knowledge trade, " and can make money by selling knowledge.
Of these three, US income from selling technology is four times the amount it spends buying technology elsewhere, and it earns enough each year in patent royalties to balance its enormous deficit in manufactured goods.
In contrast, Taiwan is still showing a nasty deficit in knowledge trade, with money going out twice as fast as it is coming in.
The impressive American model would certainly be difficult to apply to the small " shallow " economy in Taiwan.
As Ko Chen-en, dean of the College of Management at National Taiwan University, puts it : " You merely have to ask how many Nobel Prize winners Taiwan has-not many-and you know its real ability to follow the US economic model. "
Ko relates that " high-risk and high-profit " revolutionary new technologies can normally only be created with enormous financial backing.
In 1999, total expenditures on R&D in Taiwan by both the government and private sector were a mere NT$ 200 billion-LRB-about US $ 6 billion-RRB-, less than was spent by IBM alone.
Slow improvement
In contrast to the " picking stars from the sky " US model, says Wu Se-hwa, " the European knowledge-based economy concept is closer to what Taiwan needs. "
As Wu explains, the OECD definition of the knowledge-based economy embraces all kinds of industries, from Italian shoes to Dutch flowers.
Any industry that increases its knowledge component, using knowledge to improve management, innovate, or improve quality, can be considered a knowledge industry.
This is a much more practical ambition for Taiwan, which has a high proportion of traditional industry and is extremely dependent on OEM manufacturing to make money.
In 1998 Taiwan had more than 4500 patents approved in the US, ranking fourth.
But not many of these were for original discoveries ; most were in the category of improvements of old ideas, mainly ways to increase efficiency in the manufacturing process.
Innovations that are improvements require less money for R&D, and do not require genius-like creativity, but can be made primarily by devoting more attention to a specific problem.
S.T. Day, chairman of the National Association of Small and Medium Enterprises of the ROC, and chairman of the San Sun Hat and Cap Company, takes the following case in point : On most caps there is an " eyelet " in the stitching.
But, because of different machine designs, the gap can be 80, 90, or 100 stitches, creating problems for quality control.
San Sun created a computer program that ensures that machines leave a uniform gap of 95 stitches, and even gets the machines to tie a lovely knot when the sticthcing is completed.
This seemingly small improvement actually allows the firm to charge double the unit price per hat.
Day has factories in Taiwan, the US, mainland China, and Dominica.
Wages in Taiwan are 15 times greater than in the PRC, and 100 times greater than in Burma.
" If Taiwan workers just make hats and do nothing else, then it does n't pay.
But if, because of their higher quality, these workers come up with their own ideas for improving the production process, then they are worth it, " says Day with the voice of experience.
He says that in assessing the value of employees, you have to look at more than just the value of the product ; you have to also take into account its " intelligence " value.
San Sun insists it will not lay off any Taiwan workers, nor will it hire foreign laborers in Taiwan, and its sales have not suffered as a result.
Indeed, orders through October of 2000 showed an increase of 60 % over the previous year.
VIA con dios
VIA Technologies, a stock market powerhouse in Taiwan which has made a tremendous impact in the chipset market these past two years, and which is even threatening the dominant position of Intel, has adopted a different strategy for gradually expanding its territory.
William Lee, who works in public relations at VIA, says that the production of chipsets is a high risk activity.
So, taking advantage of the boom in the Taiwan stock market over the past two years, the company went on a binge of hiring, acquisitions, and strategic alliances, expanding in size rapidly.
Lee says that in the past, VIA's chipsets were designed completely to support Intel specification CPUs.
In 1998, when Intel insisted on sticking with expensive Rambus memory chips despite a poor market response, VIA saw its opportunity :
It began promoting use of the P133 memory chip, which had been created by an international consortium and was provided to factories free of charge.
For the first time, VIA had challenged the " big boss, " Intel.
In the latter half of 1999, VIA acquired two CPU companies in the States, giving it an independent ability to develop CPUs.
In addition, half a year ago it entered into cooperation with the US graphics powerhouse S3 to make graphics chips.
In these ways, VIA is moving step by step to enlarge its intellectual holdings.
" You have to have a lot of technology already on hand before you can start talking about systematic integration and trying out major innovations, " says Lee.
It is only now that VIA can escape from the specifications dictated by large multinational firms, and create innovative products of its own.
To meet future market demand for home appliances that are inexpensive, multi-functional, and portable, the main direction will be to get all the functions on to a single chip.
VIA has designed a new 3-in-1 chipset which includes CPU, memory, and graphics, which are expected to formally hit the market in the first half of 2001.
As Lee reveals : " No one has ever done this before.
We are trying something new. "
Save the idiots !
Nonetheless, knowledge and creativity are intangible, and it is not always easy to determine ownership.
This is especially problematic in Taiwan, where some people still do n't have a very clear idea about intellectual property rights, and legal protections are less than comprehensive.
This is a potential problem for the development of the knowledge-based economy in Taiwan.
" Many innovations just represent going a little bit further in thinking about a problem than the other guys, and once the secret is uncovered, it is easy for them to copy the idea, " says Simon Chang.
The most famous example in the industry involves a certain company that wanted to create information systems like storage and document handling.
It invited a number of information industry firms to give briefings on their products.
After a while, this former " outsider " became an insider, and created its own product, congratulating itself on saving so much money in the process.
Simon Chang notes that a major innovation usually is nested in a lot of small innovations.
If small innovations are not recognized, or do not get appropriate market rewards, this will destroy the motivation to innovate at all.
This is precisely the problem now being faced by Comdek, the first company in Taiwan to produce medical instruments such as blood-oxygen monitors and ear thermometers.
Michael Y.S. Kuo, general manager at Comdek, points out that the quick and easy process of taking body temperature through the ear was developed by an American company, and the German giant Boehringer-Ingelheim paid a huge amount of money for the patent so they could begin production.
Comdek took the basic principle, and went to work on it, eventually coming up with their own version, for which they have been awarded a patent.
But when Comdek's product came out, Michael Kuo still found himself in a vicious struggle with Taiwan pirate firms : " It's equivalent to making fools out of those of us who invest the money to do research and development ! "
Kuo says that while there has been some improvement in Taiwan with regard to protection of intellectual property rights, there is still not enough for those who invest in development and innovation.
Comdek has closed its laboratory and production line to any outside visits, and has not ruled out the possibility of moving its lab overseas to get away from industrial espionage in Taiwan.
Looking for a Taiwan McDonald's
Espionage reflects a lack of respect for knowledge.
But there is also the problem of insufficient awareness of the potential value of knowledge, so that, as Wu Se-hwa says, Taiwan firms " are sitting on a mountain of gold, but do n't know that they can sell what they know for hard cash. "
" The most ' classic ' form of knowledge product is one in which the intangible value of the knowledge transcends the tangible value of the product, and can be reproduced in large volume at low cost, thus earning huge profits. "
Wu points to the US coffee shop chain Starbucks.
Can they really make huge profits just by selling cups of coffee for a couple of bucks ?
Of course not.
The headquarters company in fact spends most of its time handling the sale of franchise rights worldwide.
What Starbucks sells is not coffee, but " the knowledge of how to run a coffee shop. "
The same logic applies to McDonalds :
Who does n't know how to draw their " golden arches " trademark ?
It does n't seem to require any great wisdom to have a bright and clean store with fast-food service, but when you link this simple product together with a trademark, powerful name recognition, and high quality control, the result has swept the globe.
Now over 20,000 franchises worldwide work to expand the company's territory while the headquarters takes 0.5 % of operating revenues as its share for as long as the franchise lasts.
In recent years, as Taiwan firms have increasingly invested abroad, the " Taiwan experience " has penetrated deeply into Southeast Asia and mainland China.
In both the manufacturing and service sectors, Taiwan businessmen have proven adept at flexibly adapting to local society.
But now that Taiwan methods are well understood and widely copied, Taiwan investors are being dropped by their local partners.
" Taiwan companies do n't understand how to ensure their earnings from management knowledge and company name recognition, and are not in the habit of selling rights or earning royalties, " says Wu with regret, as he offers the following examples : Taiwan department stores are a cut above PRC state-run stores, Taiwan's construction industry has the knack for systematic management, and even industries like eel-raising have their own technologies and operating methods, but people only think about keeping these secrets to themselves and making money by working on their own.
They do n't know how to spread knowledge so that others will make money for them !
Of course, to sell operational know-how, this knowledge must be converted into steps, systems, and standards, and must be well-packaged.
And trademarks and patents must be employed to deter potential pirates.
Wu suggests that organizations in Taiwan which are dedicated to teaching management methods, such as the China Productivity Center, should assist companies in systematizing and selling the rights to their mangement and operating philosophies, so that the uniquely flexible Taiwan approach to business can be reproduced and marketed worldwide.
" If only people would change their attitudes, the knowledge-based economy could have many new components, and every industry, firm, or individual could find an opportunity to make money on this new frontier, "
concludes Wu.
Looking to the future, the road to a knowledge-based economy is long, but it is the only choice for Taiwan.
What is most important now is to remove obstacles from the path, and to make each stride as large and quick as possible.
p. 006
Bringing brain power together with computer power is what developing the knowledge-based economy is all about.
-LRB-photo by Pu Hua-chih-RRB-
p. 008
" Why not have a little fun while you are at it ? "
In the new economy, creativity is king.
This Japanese electronic dog, known as Aibo, was a hit at the Taipei Expo international information industry exhibition.
p. 009
A national conference on the development of the knowledge-based economy, convened in early November of 2000, laid the groundwork for the future direction of economic development in Taiwan, and was a move by the government to increase confidence in the economy in Taiwan.
p. 010
Cyberlink Corporation has become the darling of the stock market with new AV technology like Power DVD and Talking Show.
CEO Alice Lee is one of the prime movers behind the scenes.
p. 010
Hsu Wen-hsing, whose firm has produced an award-winning fingerprint verification device, aspires to a future in which the catch-phrase CIT-LRB-" created in Taiwan "-RRB-will become even more widely used that the current MIT-LRB-" made in Taiwan "-RRB-.
p. 011
The Winbond Knowledge Management Center, led by assistant vice president George Tsao, was founded a half year ago to provide overall management of the company's scattered knowledge assets, and to bring to the surface the intellectual treasures locked in employees ' heads.
p. 011 Comdek
Industrial Corporation, one of the few medical instrument manufacturers in Taiwan, has won numerous awards for its products.
General manager Michael Kuo here displays a portable blood-oxygen monitor.
p. 012 Motorcycles
may be a traditional industry.
But application of computer controlled technologies can increase their knowledge component and raise competitiveness.
p. 013
An alien invasion ?
No, it's just visitors at a new car exhibition " road-testing " the speedy vehicles in virtual reality.
-LRB-photo by Diago Chiu-RRB-
p. 014
Information, knowledge, and technology are not only changing society and the economy, but will transform the future as well.