Mourn for the End of an Era : Three Taiwanese Cultural Giants
-LRB-Laura Litr. by Jonathan Barnard-RRB-
The year 2001 has started with a series of saddening losses in the cultural realm.
On the first of the year, Hsu Tsang-houei, the dean of Taiwanese music, passed away after a fall left him in a coma.
Then came the news that Chang Kwang-chih, the respected archeologist and former vice-president of the Academia Sinica, had died of illness in the United States.
Finally, on the afternoon of January 9, the historian Tai Kuo-hui died of septicemia.
These three masters in their fields were all in their early seventies.
Since they had just reached a time in their lives and careers where they could slow down and enjoy the fruits of their past labors, one feels inclined to complain to heaven or sigh about the brevity of life.
Each of these men was at the forefront of his field in Taiwan, and their deaths represent the end of an era.
Where should Chinese music go ?
Hsu Tsang-houei had a huge impact on Taiwanese music over the last half century.
Born in Homei, Changhua in 1928, Hsu studied the violin in Japan as a youth.
Later, he studied in France for five years, where he became well versed in the various schools of modern Western music.
In 1959 he returned to introduce modern Western classical music to his homeland.
He also published a seminal essay entitled, " Where Should Chinese Music Go ? " in which he passionately urged his fellow musicians to create contemporary Chinese music.
Many young composers took up his call and wrote difficult and dissonant twelve-tone works that would become the creative mainstream in music departments.
Unfortunately, schools of modern classical music struggled to hold their audiences even in the West, and audiences found it harder and harder to connect with the Taiwanese modern music of which Hsu was the leading figure.
Opinion has remained polarized about the worth of this music.
Hsu was also at the forefront of efforts to record traditional Taiwanese folk music.
In the mid-1960s, Hsu, Shih Wei-liang, Lu Ping-chuan and others established various organizations, including the Folk Music Research Workshop.
Fighting the reigning bias in favor of musical traditions from the mainland, Hsu led the way in collecting and recording Taiwanese Nanguan music and Hakka eight-tone, as well as the music of the aboriginal tribes.
These collections helped to delineate the history of Taiwanese music.
In the past decade, with the rise of the " Taiwan first " movement in politics, Hsu's folk music collections have garnered more and more attention, and CDs of them have been released one after another.
In the last few years, Hsu was appointed both as national policy advisor to the president and as the chairman of the National Culture and Arts Foundation.
Cross-strait archeological star
Just as Hsu's work spanned from the classical to the contemporary, from the West to his native soil, the archaeologist Chang Kwang-chih's broad vision allowed him to build the foundations for the field of archeology both for Taiwan and China as a whole.
In his autobiography, Chang describes himself as a " Yam Man, " which is an allusion to Taiwan being shaped like a yam.
Chang explains that he was actually born in Beijing, though his father's family was indeed from Taiwan.
After Taiwan was returned to Chinese rule, Chang returned to the land of his roots.
Studying at Chienkuo High in 1949, he was arrested on false charges of having participated in the April 6 Incident.
He spent nearly a year in jail before taking the high school equivalency exam and going on to study archeology at NTU.
After earning his doctorate at Harvard, he took an academic post in America but always maintained his focus on Chinese archeology.
Largely due to his unflagging efforts, Chinese archeology attained a sturdy theoretical and practical foundation that enabled it to emerge as a world-class discipline.
His research showed that the rise of Chinese civilization did not occur exclusively in the area around the Yellow River Valley.
Rather it emerged from several languages, ethnic groups and cultures spread over a vast landscape.
This overturned the " single origin theory " and debunked Western assumptions about " oriental despotism. "
Though a world-class scholar, Chang never forgot the land of his origins.
In the 1960s, he returned to Taiwan and embarked on research at the Fengpitou site in Kaohsiung, completing the most extensive archeological study made in Taiwan in over a century.
Then he went on to perform research in an area that spanned the Choshui and Tatu river valleys.
It was a huge undertaking that involved both archeology and geology.
Many of the leading lights among the younger generation of Taiwan anthropologists cut their research teeth on this project.
Unfortunately, Chang Kwang-chih became afflicted with Parkinson's disease more than a decade ago.
His limbs started to shake, and it became impossible for him to perform fieldwork.
Chang deeply regretted that he was unable to examine the Shangqiu site in eastern Henan.
Though sick, Chang returned home at the end of his life to serve as vice president of the Academia Sinica, where he worked hard to establish Taiwan as the preeminent world center for sinology.
Taiwanese heart, Chinese sentiments
Finally there was the death of the historian Tai Kuo-hui, who served on the National Security Council and was admired as much for his lofty character as for his pioneering work in Taiwanese history.
His differences of opinion with Lee Teng-hui had thrust him into the spotlight in recent years.
Born in 1931 in Taoyuan, Tai was educated under Japanese colonial rule, and he earned a doctorate in agriculture at Tokyo.
Back in the 1960s, when Taiwanese history was still a taboo subject in Taiwan, Tai organized a research society in Japan devoted to the study of Taiwanese history and other related Asian topics.
For this work, he was blacklisted in Taiwan.
Later, Tai repeatedly declined invitations from Chiang Ching-kuo to return.
It was n't until Lee Teng-hui was president that he finally came home.
But when he did, his different perspective about Taiwan history brought Tai Kuo-hui farther and farther from the mainstream of the ruling party.
Although Tai did n't flinch from condemning the authoritarianism of Chiang Kai-shek and his son Chiang Ching-kuo, he also had harsh things to say about Japanese colonial rule-unlike Lee Teng-hui, who had fond memories of the colonial era.
Tai, who described himself as an " independent-minded Chinese born in Taiwan, " never lost his affection for China proper, and these sentiments set him apart from most historians of Taiwan.
With regard to cross-strait relations, Tai made his famous " testicles analogy. "
Taiwan is a part of China, he stated, just as testicles are a part of a man's body.
Though inextricably linked to the body, the testicles have their own special functions.
He based his analogy on what he deemed was best for all of the Chinese people.
His theory was a far cry from Lee Teng-hui's belief that Taiwan should establish clear boundaries between itself and the mainland.
But Tai Kuo-hui never shied from controversy.
Otherwise, he would not have chosen to study Taiwanese history to begin with.
Throughout his life, he maintained his tough Hakka spirit and academic independence, holding fast to his opinions and never compromising.
He was greatly admired for his intellectual integrity.
These great masters ' deaths have come at a time when the field of education has been in the spotlight for other reasons.
The Ministry of Education has just formally apologized-50 years after the fact-for the April 6 Incident, and a university president has been found guilty of plagiarizing a research paper.
The former shows that intellectuals in Taiwan need no longer fear torture and imprisonment for their beliefs.
The latter suggests that some people have allowed blind ambition to sully the pure ideal of scholarship.
Apart from causing us to mourn, the deaths of these great men have left us with a lot to think about.
p. 62
Hsu Tsang-houei introduced modern Western classical music to Taiwan before making pioneering collections of traditional Taiwanese music.
His major opera on Zheng Chenggong-LRB-Koxinga-RRB-debuted just last year.
The most important Taiwanese musical master of the last half century, he was a beloved teacher to many.
His legacy will live on through his students.
-LRB-photo by Diago Chiu-RRB-
p. 62
Chang Kwang-chih taught for decades at Harvard and Yale but never forgot his homeland Taiwan.
Though afflicted with Parkinson's disease in his later years, he nonetheless served as vice president of the Academia Sinica.
He made a major contribution toward developing the field of archeology in Taiwan.
-LRB-file photo-RRB-
p. 63
" Only with a true understanding of history can we clearly chart a future path ! "
What people respected most about the historian Tai Kuo-hui was his determination to face historical truth and his refusal to heed prevailing dogma and political fashion.
The photo shows him at a forum discussing the island's political future in the wake of the last presidential election, which transferred power from one party to another.
-LRB-photo by Pu Hua-chih-RRB-