Taiwan News Holds Seminar on Cross-Strait Relations
The biggest story of the year in Taiwan has naturally been the changing of the guard at the presidential palace as a result of the Democratic Progressive Party-LRB-DPP-RRB-victory in the election on 18 March.
Jin Zhong, president and editor-in-chief of Hong Kong's OPEN magazine, which specializes in political reporting and commentary, spent an entire week in Taiwan observing the election campaign and its aftermath, and on 20 March, OPEN organized a seminar titled " The New President and Cross-Strait Relations. "
The seminar was held in cooperation with Taiwan News, one of the island's oldest English-language newspapers-LRB-known until last year as the China News-RRB-.
The KMT ticket finished nearly 14 percentage points behind independent candidate James Soong and pulled in fully two million votes fewer than the DPP ticket, a margin of defeat which Jin Zhong described in his opening remarks as stunning.
When Chinese Communist premier Zhu Rongji made belligerent remarks a few days before the election in an effort to scare voters away from the DPP ticket, the ruling party made a grievous mistake, opined Jin, when it failed to come out strongly critical of Zhu and attempted instead to capitalize on the incident by playing the " fear card. "
At the same time, however, winning candidate Chen Shui-bian captured only 39 % of the vote, which translates to a weak mandate.
As a result, he must take a moderate line that stresses inter-party cooperation.
He will have to include a wide range of people in his government, keep a low profile, guard against any temptation to grow imperious in power, and strive to be a president of all the people.
As for mainland China's saber-rattling, Jin argued that there is no need for undue concern.
Stated Jin, " The consequences would be too severe.
It's not like Taiwan is without any means of retaliation.
Are the mainland authorities really prepared to see Hong Kong and Shanghai go up in flames ? "
There are other perspectives on cross-strait relations, of course.
The seminar participants basically fell into three camps on future prospects.
Some were highly optimistic, others were guardedly optimistic, and a third group argued that the crystal ball has gone cloudy.
Perhaps the most optimistic view was expressed by Ruan Ming, a visiting professor at Tamkang University's Department of China Studies who in the 1980s was an assistant to former Chinese Communist Secretary General Hu Yaobang.
Ruan stated that Beijing's basic position on Taiwan has not changed at all since the days of Deng Xiaoping.
" There's nothing new in what they 're saying. "
The only thing the Chinese Communists are saying, says Ruan, is that they will attack " if Taiwan makes any sort of formal move toward independence, " and Taiwan has no need to formalize anything because changing the country's name would be meaningless.
" No matter what you call yourself, people are still going to call you Taiwan.
It's just like in England-the official name is the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, but nobody calls it that.
And there's no need to going around shouting, ' We 're a country ! We 're a country ! '
Who in the international community does that ? "
Pragmatism, please
" Taiwan needs to be more pragmatic, " says Ruan, " just like the mainland. "
They made a lot of noise ahead of the election trying to sway votes, but once the election was over they backpedaled quickly with the simple statement, " We 'll wait and see what they say and do. "
The attitude with them, in Ruan's view, is very pragmatic.
Ruan is optimistic about cross-strait relations under the new regime, and states, " Chen Shui-bian is best positioned to improve cross-strait relations. "
He likens Chen to the staunchly anti-communist Richard Nixon, who was able to normalize ties with the Chinese Communists precisely because he was trusted by the American people.
Similarly, when Chen Shui-bian negotiates with Beijing, no one will worry about him selling Taiwan down the river.
The noted political commentator Chin Heng-wei, chief editor of Taiwan's Contemporary Monthly, agreed strongly with Ruan's comments, and added, " In this election the people of Taiwan were even more concerned about domestic issues than they were about cross-strait relations. "
The most pressing issues facing the new president are education, the environment, " black gold " politics-LRB-murky connections between the worlds of politics, business, and organized crime-RRB-, and crime fighting.
When Nobel laureate Lee Yuan-tseh came out in support of Chen Shui-bian, implying that the DPP represented " the progressive forces in society, " Chen's support jumped immediately upward.
Virtually everyone at the seminar was in agreement that it is neither advisable nor necessary to seek a quick solution to the cross-strait issue, and that Taiwan need only avoid stirring up Chinese nationalism.
Wei Chengsi-LRB-news director at ATV news in Hong Kong and a former director of policy research in the public relations department of the municipal party committee in Shanghai-RRB-emphasized the fluid nature of Beijing's policy on Taiwan.
He feels that the mainland authorities face many more pressing issues than Taiwan, and that the current tension basically stems from President Lee Teng-hui's pronouncement on state-to-state relations.
Having been through the Tiananmen massacre, Wei felt compelled to warn the people of Taiwan, " You absolutely must not think the way the students did in Beijing in '89.
You must not think that ' the communists wo n't attack because the US wo n't let them, ' and then go out of your way to provoke them to where they no longer have an out.
Under the wrong circumstances, failure to display strong Chinese nationalism could spell political suicide for a Communist Party leader, and he might well decide, ' To hell with the US and economic development, I 've got to attack if I'm to stay in power. '
That would be an incredible disaster. "
Chiu Hsiang-chung, chief editor of the Hong Kong Economic Journal, also advocated cautious optimism.
In his view, there has been no fundamental change in the cross-strait relationship, but he listed a few variables that bear close watching.
The first is the combination of nationalism and Jiang Zemin's desire to serve another term as Secretary General of the Communist Party and make his mark on history.
Could he attempt to use nationalism to further his ambition ?
Second, the People's Liberation Army hopes to parlay the Taiwan issue into increased influence in domestic politics.
Third, Taiwan could make mistakes and give the Chinese Communists an excuse for military action.
And a fourth factor is the wishy-washy American support for Taiwan.
If all of these variables combined in the wrong way, the military authorities could make a miscalculation that would lead to war.
When hawk meets hawk
Chou Chi-ping-LRB-senior advisor at Business Weekly-RRB-and Tseng Fu-sheng-LRB-general secretary of the KMT's Department of Mainland Operations-RRB-felt that the future of cross-strait relations is still up in the air.
Chou, as a former official with the Straits Exchange Foundation, has had direct dealings with the Chinese Communists.
He argued that the DPP's view of the mainland has always been colored by ideology, and thus take a dim view of the other side.
It is true, acknowledges Chou, that Chen Shui-bian has changed his basic stance and now says that he " will not change the country's name, declare independence, or seek to enshrine the state-to-state principle in the constitution. "
It is also true that Lee Yuan-tseh-LRB-who is highly respected in the mainland for his academic achievements-RRB-has vouched for the sensibility of Chen's approach to cross-strait relations.
And yes, once again, it is true that the Chinese Communists have muted their rhetoric considerably.
Nevertheless, the two sides view each other with suspicion.
If the Chinese Communists conclude that Taiwan's leadership has dropped its insistence on formal independence only to pursue a policy that includes de facto independence as its aim, Chou argued that this will introduce a note of uncertainty into the relationship.
Tseng Fu-sheng feels that Taiwan should claim the high ground by holding up its experience in democratization as an example for the Chinese Communists.
Says Tseng, " Reunification depends entirely on whether China can democratize. "
His biggest worry is that the deep gulf between the DPP and the mainland authorities could cause them to misread each other.
He stressed that there are both doves and hawks on all sides of the trilateral relationship between Beijing, Washington, and Taipei.
If the hawks gained the upper hand at the same time in all three capitals, opined Tseng, the result could be war.
The seminar attendants also examined Taiwan's domestic situation.
Versatile author and cultural commentator Ping Lu offered some very incisive comments regarding the post-election protests outside the KMT headquarters.
In demanding that Lee Teng-hui resign as chairman of the KMT to take responsibility for the election defeat, Ping-LRB-herself a second-generation " mainlander "-RRB-argued that the protest revealed an ethnic fault line in Taiwanese society.
It was a venting of mass frustration on the part of one particular ethnic group, said Ping, noting that most of the protesters were mainlanders.
This group feels a loss of status, for during the many decades of KMT rule they have always thought of themselves as a privileged " majority " in Taiwan even though in fact they are a minority.
They do not identify with Taiwan as their home, and they have an unconscious feeling of superiority vis-a-vis the local majority.
In some ways the election has forced them to realize that they truly are a minority.
This development should help to bring about long-lasting ethnic harmony in Taiwan.
The participants generally felt that the election was a victory for democracy.
On the domestic front, the victory of Chen Shui-bian showed that people want more democracy, greater respect for human rights, and a more serious effort to banish " black gold " from the political arena.
In cross-strait relations Chen's victory spells the end of an era in which the cross-strait relationship was conducted within the framework of a civil war between he KMT and the Chinese Communist Party.
Reform of the KMT and the formation of a new political party by James Soong will also improve the political system in Taiwan.
It appears that the people of Taiwan have finally taken their first bold step into an era of true democracy, and a mature political system is no longer a distant prospect.