Tips for Getting through Middle Age
-LRB-Laura Liphotos by Hsueh Chi-kuangtr. by Jonathan Barnard-RRB-
Middle age and the changes it brings are like a revolving door.
Many people peacefully go through it, growing wiser and losing their rough edges.
A minority do n't know whether to advance or retreat and get caught in it like a trap.
Middle age is a time where one wears more hats than at any other time in one's life, when one's responsibilities are heaviest.
As a result, the crises experienced by a minority of middle-aged people can involve a lot of other people, so their impact can not be overlooked.
Middle age, those years between 40 and 60, is both the time of life of greatest glory and the time of life that's easiest to overlook.
In comparison to youth or old age, the middle years are often thought of as the time when power, ability, wealth, and physical strength are all at or near their peak, so that one has no excuse for feeling melancholy.
Even if there are problems, it is commonly thought that one should be able to resolve them by oneself, notes Chiu Chia-li, director of the Hwo Chyuan Pastoral Counseling Center, who has worked on many middle-aged cases.
Social bias makes many of the middle aged afraid to discuss their problems.
This is particularly the case for men, who generally find it difficult to talk about their feelings.
But by keeping everything inside, they may cause irreparable harm to their health.
In recent years cancer, sudden death and suicide have become all too common during middle age, which shows that the psychological problems of the middle-aged should not be overlooked.
How do you safely pass through the changes of the middle years ?
Here are a few suggestions :
1. Live well at every stage of life
Li Liang-che, a professor of psychology at National Chengchi University, looks at the question from the angle of developmental psychology.
He points out that the path of life is continuous : everyone moves from infancy and childhood, to youth and middle age.
Smoothly passing through any period of life helps make getting through the next period easier.
In other words, the people most at risk during middle age are those who have had difficulties earlier in life.
Foreign research shows that those with high social and economic status and with ample financial resources bear up better during crisis and have more ways to get out of trouble.
Is it too late to start talking about these problems when you are already middle-aged ?
Chang Der-chung, an associate professor in the Department of Living Science at National Open University who worked at a counseling hotline for over a decade, argues that any step in the right direction is worthwhile, no matter when you start.
Middle-aged problems are rather predictable, and they 're not hard to avoid.
Are you worried that your marriage is growing stale ?
Then no matter how busy you are, you 've got to set aside some time to be with your spouse.
Are you worried about losing your job ?
Then start developing a second skill and get into the habit of saving and managing your money.
Are you worried about how to care for your parents when they get old and sick ?
Then spend more time with them, and encourage them to get more exercise and take care of themselves.
There are so many things to be concerned about during middle age that you had better get an early start.
Otherwise, you 'll end up being overwhelmed.
2. Start over
In China it used to be said that middle age was the period when one was " heir to the ancient sages and the teacher of posterity. "
But now times are changing so fast that perhaps the lessons of past experience are no longer suitable for solving today's problems.
To assume a posture of superiority based on one's seniority will make one despised.
Hence, it is necessary to cast aside one's old self and start over.
Chiu notes that many middle-aged who have worked diligently for years to attain management positions look down on the younger generation for being reckless and disorganized, but they do n't realize that creativity and energy may be ready to explode from underneath these flaws.
Stuck in the past and full of bitterness, they may end up getting discarded onto the scrap heap of history.
With each new era, role models change.
Until the new role models have been established, it is important to maintain flexibility.
For instance, today's middle-aged Chinese women are the first to have obtained advanced degrees and to have come in contact with the women's liberation movement.
They set high expectations for themselves, but their disappointments are likewise large.
Many women are torn between conflicting desires : to be good homemakers like their mothers and to have successful careers like their fathers.
Their candles are burning at both ends, because they are trying to live up to two old role models rather than establishing a new one for themselves.
Then there are men who insist upon being strict fathers and disciplinarians or staying at the same company until they retire.
And there are women who are determined to play the role of the traditional Chinese wife and mother.
Ignoring the changing times, they place tremendous pressure on themselves.
3. Turn the focus from outside to inside
Life is a process that moves from the " outward " to the " inward, " says Alice Lu, director of the International Family Life Education Center, getting to the heart of the matter.
Lu explains that as children people yearn for the affection of their parents ; as adolescents they want the affirmation of their peers ; and as adults, they set their sights on educational qualifications, finding a good job, making money, marrying a good spouse and so forth.
Everyone puts the emphasis on outward manifestations of success, and this emphasis on the glitter of outward achievement continues up to middle age.
" By middle age, people have gotten from the outside world just about all they can, " says Lu.
" What they have n't attained yet they probably wo n't attain ever, so it's not worth getting all worked up about it.
This is the time of life when the doubts set in. "
Many middle-aged people begin to ask themselves, " Is this really what I want ?
What has been the point of all my hard striving ? "
When the doubts come, some people continue trying to find answers from outside, thinking that everything would be fine if they could just change jobs or wives !
But then they rashly switch jobs or foolishly get involved in an affair only to find that they 've just made things worse.
" In middle age you start to listen to what's going on inside, " says Lu.
" It's the time of life when you start to hone your skills at conversing with your soul. "
People ask themselves : Am I truly happy ?
Do I like the person I see in the mirror ?
Why ?
What dreams can I pursue ?
At this point, there is no longer any need to try to measure oneself against outside standards.
Instead it's more important to accept oneself and attempt to find an inner balance.
" One need not compare one's inner achievements with those of other people, " notes Chiu.
Everyone's circumstances and personalities are different, and they place different expectations on themselves.
It's not a matter of being better or worse than anyone else, and there's no need to follow the currents of fashion.
Everyone is unique.
Morris Chang was in his fifties when he became an entrepreneur and founded Taiwan Semiconductor.
Many others at the same time in life have opted to take early retirement and find a guru in India, work as a volunteer, or do whatever else they want to do.
In the modern age when people value different things, you can find a purely personal kind of happiness and success.
4. Realistically strive for one's dreams
When focusing inward, many dreams that have long been discarded will end up floating to the surface.
At such times, one should remember to ask oneself three questions :
" What do I want ? " " What can I do ? " And " What must I do and have ? "
Chang Der-chung reminds people to think clearly about their needs, and then think about the costs.
Will meeting these personal needs necessarily come into conflict with meeting one's responsibilities ?
Is there some way that the two can be accomplished simultaneously ?
When facing problems at work in Taiwan, many people decide to change careers or even to pursue their fortunes in mainland China or Southeast Asia.
Pursuing some dream of really making it big, many men use up their savings, leaving their wives as the sole source of family support and suffering loneliness in a foreign land.
There's no right or wrong here, and there's no way to guarantee a venture will be successful, but beforehand one must at least be realistic and prepare oneself psychologically for all possible outcomes, so that one wo n't suffer losses larger than one can bear.
" It is indeed the case that when one is young, one's quiver is full of arrows and opportunities abound, so that one can shoot at will, " says Chang by way of analogy.
" Once you get into middle age, you 've got to make every arrow count. "
Chang explains that everyone has dreams, and that continually working toward those dreams is an excellent method of relieving stress at any age.
Middle-aged people have heavy burdens, and sometimes they may feel as if they are suffocating under them.
" But accomplishing a lot of little changes can bring about a big change. "
If you make an effort to do what you can, you will immediately find that your burdens have been lightened.
Chang cites this example : Say you hate being tied up by your work, and would like to go back to school.
Why do n't you try a weekend class ?
Maybe that would help to alleviate your anxiety.
Or if you are a housewife, taking care of three generations and resentful that you ca n't go out and get the sense of accomplishment that comes with a full-time job, then maybe you could work as a volunteer in a community organization.
This would both put you into contact with other people and help you gain a sense of accomplishment.
And you can help to sweat off your middle-aged anxieties by making a habit of regularly exercising.
What's more, do n't worry too much about time being short.
Remember that most modern people live long lives that can be divided up into many stages.
In middle age, when you discover that your personal desires are coming into conflict with the demands of your family or society, decide which of your problems are the most urgent.
Do n't try to accomplish all of your dreams at once.
Maintain an unhurried frame of mind and peacefully wait for opportunities to present themselves.
5. Change your perspective
In middle age, one's life is already half over, and one has already amply tasted of life's fruits, both the bitter and the sweet.
" I am thankful for the bad times, for they have given me more insight into life and a better opportunity to understand myself, " says Lin Hung-kuei, an I-kuan Tao devotee, who has studied the Book of Changes and fengshui.
Taking care of your parents, losing your job, illness and even being cheated out of money can be embraced as opportunities to experience life.
They are lessons that the middle-aged learn from to become more proficient at the art of living.
" By changing perspective, you can understand the insignificance of your problems, " points out Chiu Chia-li.
It is very important to adjust your frame of mind.
You should n't think that there is only one way that you can be.
As long as you can accept yourself, then everything is all right.
As for losing your job in middle age, some people make NT$ 100,000 and it's not enough.
Other's find that NT$ 20,000 is more than enough to support the family.
The problem is that by insisting on making NT$ 100,000 a month, you may pass by a suitable job that pays NT$ 20,000.
Chang also notes that when people come to forks in the road when they reach middle age, they may look around in all directions and feel at a loss, but they 've got to encourage themselves to keep pressing ahead.
" Even if you feel uncertain, it should be a positive feeling of uncertainty. "
At the very least, you 've got to work hard at establishing a sense of direction.
When Li Liang-che starts feeling sorry for himself, he uses the age-old method of considering those who are even worse off.
Those people who are always complaining about their lot in life should take a walk around a cancer ward, " Li says.
Then they 'll realize how lucky they are. "
Chiu Chia-li, on the other hand, encourages the middle-aged not to close themselves off.
They must get out and make friends, so as to get things off their chests and find support from each other.
This makes it easier to get through the bad times.
Finally, there is something that may seem a little cliched but is often very useful-namely the realization that things will get better, that tomorrow is another day.
" Whether you are depressed or going berserk, it's important to remember that hormones are raging inside the bodies of the middle-aged, " says Chang.
Much like rebellious adolescents, they may merely need to pass through into another stage for the sky to become blue again.
Do n't give up hope too early, and do n't be afraid of asking for assistance.
When you feel at a loss emotionally, the experts will be able to help.
p. 18
The shackles of midlife make middle-aged steps heavy.
How can one escape from one's commitments to snatch half a day of freedom, and appreciate the world from a new perspective ?
p. 20
-LRB-facing page-RRB-
The middle-aged have dreams.
If built on a solid foundation, they can make life more enjoyable and fulfilling.
p. 22
Is life getting you down ?
Go into the crowd, find things to do, and you will rediscover a sense of the value of life.