Party Hardy ?
Will the Election Weaken Political Parties ?
-LRB-Eric Linphotos by Sinorama Office of Photographytr. by John Murphy-RRB-
In Taiwan's " quiet revolution " of democratization, the people have participated enthusiastically, but not irrationally.
Now that there are two strong parties, the KMT and DPP, the slogan of " peaceful rotation of political parties in power " has become one of the most widely used appeals for the opposition.
It happens to be the turn of the mil-lennium, and this has inspired many people to think of change.
In the middle of March, Taiwan will select the president who will lead the island into the new century.
But the election, besides affecting the future direction of the country, has another rarely mentioned dimension : Since the three major candidates Lien Chan, Chen Shui-bian, and James Soong are running roughly equal, this suggests that after the election there may be a restructuring of Taiwan's political party system.
The people of Taiwan are selecting not only their future leaders, but are choosing a new direction for party politics and democratic development.
What is it about the political environment that means that the election for the president of the ROC, which was not conceived as a presidential system, will affect the future development of the country ?
How will party politics change after the election ?
Is there likely to be a constitutional crisis ?
In Taiwan in the year 2000, there are many challenges :
The pressure is on to achieve industrial upgrading and internationalization.
Also, there needs to be clear progress in the critical area of cross-strait relations.
Although entry into the World Trade Organization will create a new situation in the Taiwan Strait, the two sides remain in an obscure relationship that is neither war nor peace.
Taiwan must come up with a comprehensive policy that considers economic, diplomatic, and military factors.
Internally, there are a number of worrying problems-" black gold politics "-LRB-the confluence of criminal gangs, moneyed interests, and corrupt politicians-RRB-, rising crime, and only erratic environmental consciousness.
It is urgent to achieve consensus on these problems in order to find solutions.
Three-way battle
The desire for change is reflected in the upcoming presidential election.
This is the beginning of the post-strongman era.
John Pomfret, bureau chief of the Washington Post, points out that, after a long era of rule by virtually unchallenged leaders, the electorate is looking for more choice.
The 2000 race, with so many tickets contending, reflects this aspiration.
At the top, this election is a contest among Taiwan's second-generation political elites.
Underneath, it is a struggle among the various forces that currently exist in Taiwan's society.
The KMT nominee, Lien Chan, is seen as Lee Teng-hui's annointed successor.
He represents the continuation of Kuomintang tradition.
Chen Shui-bian, the nominee of the Democratic Progressive Party, is the greatest hope for the opposition party as it seeks the first-ever transfer of power in Taiwan.
Independent candidate James Soong, meanwhile, represents forces which have split away from the Kuomintang.
He is seen as leading a second wave of " anti-Lee Teng-hui " sentiment, similar to that which led to the creation of the New Party several years ago.
Soong's candidacy has opened up new fault lines in Taiwan's party politics, and has attracted the support of many NP legislators and other non-KMT and non-DPP forces.
The New Party itself, which is on the edge of collapse, has nominated the renowned author Li Ao as its candidate, though Li is not a party member.
In addition to these four, former DPP chairman Hsu Hsin-liang, having failed to win the nomination of his party, withdrew from the DPP and is running as an independent.
Since the campaign began in earnest, Lien, Chen, and Soong have been getting roughly similar numbers in public opinion polls, with about a quarter of the electorate undecided.
With the election so close at hand, and the situation so uncertain, naturally the media and society have been focused on analyzing the election battle itself.
Very few people have transcended this to ask what impact the three-way power struggle will have on the future political situation.
Public opinion trial balloon
The ROC constitution was not originally designed as a presidential system.
The constitution divided power among five branches of government, with the premier as head of the executive branch, and the president separate from, but theoretically not controlling, these five.
In the past, presidents Chiang Kai-shek and Chiang Ching-kuo were the de facto unchallenged rulers of the nation, but that was because of their roles as chairmen of the Kuomintang, which, under the old one-party system, outlawed any opposition.
They were president because they were powerful, not powerful because they were president.
But today times have changed, and so has the constitution.
Most importantly, the constitutional power of the president has been greatly increased.
Lin Wen-cheng, an associate professor in the Graduate Institute of Mainland China Studies at National Sun Yat-sen University, notes that the president had always enjoyed a number of special powers : appointing and dismissing of officials, dissolving of the parliament, issuing of emergency decrees in times of national emergency, and determining national-security-related policies through the National Security Council and the National Security Bureau.
But recent constitutional revisions also give the president the power to appoint the premier without requiring approval from the Legislative Yuan.
This means that the president is now the guiding figure behind all executive branch policy.
Of course President Lee Teng-hui's exercise of such powers has not proved politically destabilizing because he has been concurrently chairman of the KMT, which enjoys a majority in the Legislative Yuan.
However, if the opposition wins the presidency, it is uncertain whether the president and legislature will be able to work together harmoniously.
If there are conflicts, this could spark a constitutional crisis.
Another development that needs watching is that direct election of the president has weakened political parties.
Alexander Lu, professor of political science at National Taiwan University, states that voters no longer base their choice primarily on political party.
This is what has enabled independent candidate James Soong to remain a powerful force even after leaving the KMT.
Whether he wins or not, his candidacy signals a drastic change in Taiwan's party politics.
Candidate as hero
Lu continues : " Direct election of the president has ' put the candidate on a pedestal, ' turning the attention of the voters to the individual.
But in fact the most significant thing about this election is not which ' hero ' will lead the country.
Rather, voters should pay even more attention to how each of the candidates could affect future party politics and the direction of constitutional development. "
In fact, Taiwan's main parties-the KMT and the DPP as the two major parties, with the New Party as a noteworthy but limited third force-all understand the implications of James Soong's powerful candidacy very clearly.
They know that this election is not only a struggle for political office, but even more is a critical moment that may decide whether their respective parties develop, split up, or disappear.
KMT party chairman Lee Teng-hui has repeatedly called on voters to cherish the system of party politics that has been constructed in the process of democratization ; the KMT wants confirmation that people still see it as a coherent, positive political institution.
The DPP sees this election as its chance to displace the KMT and set a precedent for the peaceful rotation of political parties in power, thereby consolidating its position as the main alternative to the KMT.
James Soong, on the other hand, hoping to take advantage of the desire for change, emphasizes that if he is elected as a non-party candidate he will promote reforms which will alter the roles of the major parties.
The New Party is in the most embarrassing position, since its candidate-LRB-Li Ao-RRB-is not even a party member, and has been unable to keep most of its members from shifting their support to Soong instead ; this election could therefore hasten the collapse of the NP.
Peaceful transfer of power
If Chen Shui-bian is elected, this would be Taiwan's first case of a peaceful transfer of power from one party to another.
DPP legislator Chang Chun-hung says that the process of democratization in Taiwan during Lee Teng-hui's administration has been smooth and tranquil, but beneath the surface there lurks a major threat to democracy : the KMT's " black gold politics. "
Explains Chang : The DPP has never had the chance to be the ruling party, and therefore has never been in a position to fulfill its function of restraining the KMT.
The result of this long-term trend is that the KMT is " overnourished " by feeding on the resources of the state and society while the opposition parties are " undernourished. "
Chang says if there were a transfer of power, the opposition would be able to understand more clearly the actual difficulties of governing and to see more clearly the dark corners that need to be cleaned out.
Meanwhile, the ruling party, with its rich experience in governing, would be very qualified to play the role of overseeing the DPP, and a defeat for the KMT could also promote its internal reassessment and reform.
Were Chen Shui-bian to win, though the DPP would take control of the executive branch, Taiwan's current two-major-plus-one-minor party structure would probably not change very much.
Chen Wen-cheng says that a Chen victory would have its greatest impact on the New Party-and that the effect would be positive.
After an impressive start, the NP has faded steadily over the past few elections, and suffered an especially sharp blow in the election for mayor of Taipei two years ago.
NP votes drifted to Ma Ying-jeou, a member of the KMT-LRB-albeit not one of Lee Teng-hui's personal favorites-RRB-.
The NP candidate received only an anemic percentage of the ballots, bringing the party to the edge of collapse.
But if Chen Shui-bian becomes president, because the DPP is seen as the party of Taiwan independence-the direct antithesis of the New Party-this could inspire NP members to pull together, and at the same time give the party the status and ability to absorb the forces that are backing James Soong.
This would contribute to the building of a true three-party system.
An opposition-controlled legislature
If Chen Shui-bian is elected, his biggest challenge will come from the Legislative Yuan, and the first problem will be naming a premier.
Although the constitution stipulates that the president does not need the approval of the Legislative Yuan to name a premier, given the fact that the KMT has a majority there, Chen faces the problem of finding a premier who will be able to work with KMT legislators.
The Chen camp is well aware of this problem.
Therefore they have let it be known that Chen would like to ask Lee Yuan-tse, the universally respected Nobel Prize winner who is currently president of the Academia Sinica, to be his premier.
Chen, who knows that within the DPP there is little high-level governing experience, has repeatedly raised the idea of a " coalition government. "
However, it should be noted, there are after all great ideological differences between the DPP and the other parties.
KMT legislator Li Hsien-jen points out that the DPP retains advocacy of Taiwan independence in its party platform, and DPP vice-presidential candidate Annette Lu is well known for her support of Taiwan independence.
It is therefore hard to guarantee that the executive branch will not come into conflict with the legislature.
In such a conflict, the premier would be caught in the crossfire.
The legislature could pass a vote of no confidence and completely boycott the premier, or the premier could dissolve the parliament and appeal to a public referendum.
Either case would spark a constitutional crisis.
Alexander Lu agrees that a Chen victory could lead to inter-branch conflict.
But he does not see Taiwan independence as the main flashpoint.
The critical issues will instead be those related to " black gold politics, " such as stock trading taxes, which directly affect the interests of certain legislators.
Lu explains : " Currently the Legislative Yuan is filled with representatives of capital.
When it comes to laws that directly affect their personal privileges and interests, even the KMT is powerless to control them.
Chen Shui-bian has repeatedly emphasized that he intends to wipe out black gold politics and will never compromise.
Inevitably, then, there will be a clash with these legislators. "
Lien Chan's burden
If Lien Chan is elected, the party-politics issues most deserving of attention will be whether this hastens the demise of the New Party and whether the KMT party organization and the government can move together in step.
Lien is seen as Lee Teng-hui's designated successor.
But, given the term system for the chairmanship of the KMT, after the election there will be a period of time in which Lee remains party chairman, while Lien is president.
In the past, state policy has always been decided by the party chairman.
Observers are very curious about whether the KMT has in fact changed, or whether we will see a repeat of what happened back in the late 1970s :
At that time Yen Chia-kan was president, but national policy was in fact determined by Chiang Ching-kuo, whose authority derived from his post as party chairman and who took the position of premier from which to oversee day-to-day policy-making.
As Li Hsien-jen analyzes the situation, if Lien Chan is elected, there will indeed be a transition period in his relations with Lee Teng-hui.
But this is not necessarily a bad thing for the KMT.
Consider, says Li, the fact that James Soong's candidacy has raised the specter of a party split.
A victory for Lien, with Lee continuing as party chairman, would be helpful to the KMT in resolving internal party disputes, and in consolidating Lien's party and government position.
He says that it is unlikely that the Yen-Chiang situation would be repeated, since Lee Teng-hui will certainly not have an office like premier which would involve him in day-to-day policy-making.
What would a Lien victory mean for the New Party ?
Remember that the NP was organized primarily out of opposition to Lee Teng-hui.
If Lien Chan can escape from Lee's shadow, the New Party would lose its original purpose, and members could possibly return to the KMT, restoring the two-party system that reigned before the NP was formed.
Another significant possibility is that New Party members, who tend to support James Soong, could organize a brand-new political party with remnant Soong backers after the election.
Shao Tsung-hai, a professor at National Chengchih University and a campaign staffer for James Soong, states : Soong has reiterated that he personally has no intention of organizing a new political party after the election.
But the political forces that support him will necessarily have to organize themselves in some fashion.
Moreover, after Lee Teng-hui leaves the scene, and the NP no longer has that fixation, the possibility of establishing a new party with Soong's other supporters-LRB-who by no means necessarily dislike Lee-RRB-increases.
If this happens, the New Party will no longer be in decline as it is now, but will re-emerge as a force to be reckoned with, and Taiwan will be looking at a true three-party system.
If Lien Chan is elected, the KMT will continue to hold both executive power and a legislative majority, and the premier will serve simply as the chief of staff to the president.
However, based on current public opinion polls, it appears that whoever wins, Lien included, will be only a " plurality president, " without a strong mandate to rule.
To a certain degree, then, he will have to accommodate other political forces.
Chang Chun-hung, who knows the legislative environment very well, explains : " Even now in order to pass important legislation there must be compromise and negotiations.
It will be virtually impossible for the KMT to railroad through legislation under the leadership of a president who does n't enjoy majority public support. "
The need for compromise could be further increased by the proposed law currently under discussion to put all party assets in blind trust.
This would, at least on paper, reduce the financial leverage the KMT would have over its legislators, and KMT representatives could become even more difficult for the party to control.
Lien Chan may face the problem of being unable to enforce the decisions of the party center.
If Soong wins....
Many supporters of James Soong are people dissatisfied with the current state of the main parties.
It is generally believed that if Soong wins the election, this could spark a dramatic reorganization of party politics.
The main blow could fall on the New Party, which could find itself made irrelevant, with the KMT also strongly affected.
If Soong wins, it is considered virtually inevitable that his supporters will organize some sort of political organization.
Shao Tsung-hai says frankly that, even if Soong himself does not lead the way, his supporters-faced with the reality of party politics in Taiwan-would have to organize in order to coordinate their operations.
At the same time, according to public opinion surveys, an extremely high percentage of NP members support Soong.
If Soong wins, it would be logical for these people to leave the NP and join forces with other Soong backers, thereby gutting the New Party.
NP secretary-general Lee Ben-nan states : " As early as last year, the leadership realized that our party could potentially disappear " if Soong wins.
But Soong is the closest of the three main candidates to the NP ideals, thus putting the NP in a dilemma.
The party nominated Li Ao to maintain the party profile, and the NP leadership still calls on party members to support Li, but also says it will understand if its members vote for another candidate.
If Soong wins, the KMT could also be thrown into crisis.
In this election, several leading KMT figures have publicly come out in favor of James Soong, and have been expelled from the KMT as a result.
Though these could be explained away as individuals who were not able to satisfy their personal ambitions inside the party, there are also many still in the KMT who secretly are pro-Soong.
If elected, Soong will have a wealth of government resources with which to attract even more people to openly support him, and this could be the straw that breaks the KMT's back.
Based on this logic, Lin Wen-cheng says that an era of three-party politics is on the way.
Though it is impossible to say whether such a situation would be stable, for those who are dissatisfied with the current choices and who want a reshuffling of party politics in Taiwan, this is the opportunity to create a fresh climate.
Chang Chun-hung suggests that, in addition to uncertainty in party politics, a Soong victory could also bring instability to Taiwan's constitutional system.
Except for some of his followers who were with him in the provincial government, Soong's camp lacks any experience in inter-group political bargaining.
With Soong as president, political elites in Taiwan would be, as Alexander Lu describes it, like a basketball team whose players have never played together before.
Soong's camp will first have to integrate their own internal views, and then, to win confidence and trust from the Legislative Yuan, work with both the KMT and the DPP.
Such a situation is unlikely to result in much policy innovation, and in fact even the initial step of selecting a premier could prove extremely difficult.
Although the KMT, DPP, and NP all have legislators who might join the Soong camp if Soong wins, Soong's team will still need support from the KMT andor the DPP, support they can only get through negotiation.
Past experience has shown that the KMT and DPP can work together to boycott Executive Yuan proposals ; if they do this to a Soong-led executive branch, this could lead to a crisis ending in either a vote of no confidence or dissolution of the parliament.
The possibility of a constitutional crisis looks much greater under Soong than under Chen Shui-bian or Lien Chan.
The " he's one of us " effect
Few voters can see the significance of this election for party politics.
In this atmosphere of choosing among " individual heroes " rather than parties, voters are more concerned about the candidates ' characters and deportment than they are about their policy views or party backgrounds.
That is why Soong, who early on was significantly ahead of his rivals in public opinion polls, saw a dramatic drop in support after the Chung Hsing Bills scandal broke.
Meanwhile, newspapers and TV are filled with negative advertising in which candidates sling mud at one another.
These ads are giving voters the impression that the nation's future leaders are all " bad apples. "
This not only marks the deterioration of electoral culture, but is a serious blow to morale in the nation and society.
The effects may prove to be far-reaching.
Chang Chun-hung adds that negative election tactics, which after all may be seen in any democratic country, are not-bad as they are-the biggest threat.
He says Taiwan voters should most be on the lookout for the " one of us " effect.
Mobilization of votes based on ethnicity or provincial origin is the cheapest route to victory.
This has long been a tactic used in Taiwan elections.
As a result, Taiwan's ethnic groups are pitted against one another politically.
Lin Wen-cheng states that in terms of daily life, differences between Taiwan's ethnic groups have largely disappeared.
But, because ethnic cleavages are constantly being exploited in elections, inter-group political conflict remains serious.
Lin contends : " It is inevitable that minority groups in any society feel insecure about their status.
In the last election for the mayor of Taipei, it was obvious that virtually all mainlanders voted for Ma Ying-jeou.
Because the majority Taiwanese do not feel threatened, they were less likely to vote based on provincial origin, giving Ma enough cross-over votes to beat out Chen Shui-bian.
In this upcoming election, James Soong [ who is a mainlander ] is also getting a lot of support from Hakka people, who sympathize with his outsider status and remember his support for Hakka identity. "
Unfortunately, however " natural " it is that minority groups feel insecure, exploitation of these cleavages for electoral gain can only have a negative long-term impact on society as a whole.
In the 2000 election, Taiwan will not only be choosing a new leader.
It will also be choosing a new direction for party politics, and will help decide future relations between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait and between ethnic groups in Taiwan.
How can people make a wise choice among the many value systems on offer ?
How can they monitor their new leader to ensure that Taiwan has a peaceful future free of the influence of " black gold politics " ?
These are not only questions for this election, but eternal challenges for the whole people in any democratic society.