Director in Focus :
About Mayaw Biho
-LRB-Alexandra Liutr. by Robert Taylor-RRB-
Mayaw Biho-LRB-Chinese name Peng Shih-sheng-RRB-was born in 1969.
His father is a native of Hunan Province in mainland China and his mother is an Amis.
Mayaw Biho, who calls himself half Amis, grew up in the Amis village of Cero-LRB-Chunjih-RRB-in Hualien County.
He never lived away from the village until he went to study cinematography at Taipei's Shih Hsin University.
After coming to live in the city, Mayaw gradually came to realize how mainstream society in Taiwan regards the island's aboriginal peoples, and became aware of the gap between reporting and reality.
He wished to break away from the all-pervasive practice of reporting aboriginal affairs from a purely Han Chinese perspective, and approach them anew from an aboriginal standpoint.
From filming " Aboriginal News Magazine " and " Our Island " for Public Television Service and " Declaration of Life " for Super TV, to becoming the independent director he is today, Mayaw has always insisted on following his own ideas.
Mayaw loves documentary films above all else.
While at university, he began making his first four films, " Spring Sun " is Our Name : Pangcah Paddlers from Spring-Sun Village ; As Life, As Pangcah ; Children in Heaven and Pangcah Artist : Gi Lahaz.
After graduating, he completed such films as Dear Rice Wine, You Are Defeated ; National Bandits and The Land in Our Hearts.
Mayaw's filming of the story of Lukar Maku's life has already entered its third year.
As Life, As Pangcah was only the first part.
During his summer vacation in the first year of filming, Mayaw went to live in Lukar's home.
He spent all his time with the old man, and witnessed his perseverance and insistence on upholding Amis culture.
Lukar said that Mayaw's documentary " shows just what it is a person of my age does. "
But he also told him : " Mayaw, you have to work faster.
You must come and see me more often. "
Mayaw too urges himself to work harder to finish editing the films he has already shot-of Lukar talking about tribal life, hunting, religion and war-to allow the story of the Amis to be told on this island where they have lived for thousands of years.