Grand Justices Rule on Constitutionality of Nuclear Plant Suspension
-LRB-Teng Sue-fengtr. by David Mayer-RRB-
The Council of Grand Justices last month delivered a constitutional interpretation on the Cabinet's decision to suspend construction of the Fourth Nuclear Power Plant.
According to the Grand Justices, the Cabinet committed " procedural errors " in arriving at its decision.
The ruling did not specify, however, whether construction of the nuclear power plant is to be resumed.
After the decision was released, the ruling and opposition camps came out with conflicting interpretations.
The legislature's opposition coalition agreed to hold an extraordinary session so that Premier Chang Chun-hsiung could present a report on the policy decision to the legislature.
It is anyone's guess, however, as to when the controversy will finally reach a conclusion.
After deliberating for weeks on the constitutionality of the Cabinet's decision to suspend construction of the Fourth Nuclear Power Plant, the 15 members of the Grand Council of Justices delivered a constitutional interpretation on January 15.
In announcing the ruling, Judicial Yuan Secretary-General Yang Jen-shou explained that the Executive Yuan's decision to suspend construction of the nuclear plant was a major change in government policy, and since the premier is required to deliver a report to the legislature in such cases, Premier Chang's failure to do so represents a procedural flaw.
The ruling requires the premier to go to the legislature as soon as possible and give the report that he should have delivered there last year.
The Legislative Yuan, for its part, is required to receive the Executive Yuan's report.
After examining the report, the Legislative Yuan must vote.
If a majority opposes the Executive Yuan's decision, there are three ways under the ROC Constitution to resolve the standoff :
-LRB-1-RRB-the premier can resign ;-LRB-2-RRB-the legislature can put forward a no-confidence motion against the premier-LRB-which, depending on the outcome, forces either the premier's resignation or dissolution of the legislature-RRB-; or-LRB-3-RRB-the legislature can pass legislation related to the power plant's construction.
This turned out to be the most divisive case the Council has ever heard.
Only six justices supported the ruling.
Justice Liu Tieh-cheng wrote a dissenting opinion in which he noted that appropriations are listed in the ROC Constitution together with legislative bills and treaty ratification bills, and argued that they should be treated the same way.
Once such legislation has been promulgated into law by the president, wrote Liu, it must be implemented unless it is vetoed by the Cabinet.
Justice Vincent Sze authored a partial dissenting opinion arguing that since it is the duty of the Council of Grand Justices to rule on constitutional issues, the Council ought to state clearly whether or not the constitution had been violated.
Justice Tung Hsiang-fei pointed that legislation barring construction of the nuclear power plant had already been passed twice before by the legislature, and was successfully vetoed each time by the previous Kuomintang administration.
Noting that the project got underway several years ago, Tung argued that the Cabinet clearly violated the constitution when it unilaterally suspended the project on the grounds that a new party had come to power and its party platform was opposed to the nuclear plant.
After the constitutional ruling was released, it met with many different interpretations.
On issues of primary concern to the public-LRB-such as whether Premier Chang would have to resign as a result of the ruling, and whether construction of the nuclear plant will resume-RRB-, there has been conflicting commentary.
Yu Shyi-kun, Secretary-General of the Presidential Office, stated that the president would respect the ruling of the Grand Justices, but said the language of the ruling does not appear to require a Cabinet reshuffle.
The various opposition caucuses in the legislature issued a joint statement arguing that in describing the decision to suspend construction of the plant as " procedurally flawed, " the Grand Justices had in effect declared the Cabinet's unilateral action illegal, and the Cabinet's action has naturally lost legal validity for that reason.
This is not the first time a constitutional interpretation has been used to resolve a political dispute.
What exact role has the constitutional interpretation played in the dispute over the Fourth Nuclear Power Plant ?
According to National Chengchi University law professor and constitutional expert Su Yeong-chin, who headed the legal team presenting the Legislative Yuan's arguments to the Council of Grand Justices in this case, the crux of the nuclear plant dispute is about the use of democratic means in arriving at policy decisions, and should not be seen as an argument for or against nuclear power.
The role of the judiciary in this case, says Su, was to determine whether the premier has the authority to suspend implementation of a budget appropriation.
In industrialized nations, changes in policy on nuclear power are a common occurrence, but there is no country where the executive branch makes unilateral decisions behind closed doors.
Heading the legal team presenting the Cabinet's arguments to the Grand Justices was Hsu Tsung-li.
Hsu notes that while the ruling pointed to procedural flaws in the Cabinet's action, the ruling said nothing about any violation of the constitution or the law.
The Grand Justices, argues Hsu, felt that the dispute could be resolved by having the premier present a report to the legislature, or through consultations between the legislature and the cabinet.
However, said Hsu, since the government has not necessarily built up a consensus in support of its stance against nuclear power, another option might be to have the premier resign, disband the legislature, and elect a new legislature so that the public can express its will regarding the issue.
If other constitutional rulings in the past two years are any guide, it appears that the dispute between the ruling and opposition camps will have to be resolved in the political arena.
Last March the Grand Justices rendered a constitutional interpretation when the ruling and opposition parties were wrangling over a proposed term extension for all members of the National Assembly.
The justices ruled that the decision making process violated the National Assembly's rules of order and went against the principle that all decisions must be open and transparent.
After the term extension was declared invalid, retaliatory constitutional amendments were proposed in the National Assembly to abolish the Council of Grand Justices and strip the justices of their lifetime stipends.
In 1996, the Grand Justices ruled on the constitutionality of the plan to have then-Vice President Lien Chan serve concurrently as premier.
The justices issued an ambiguous ruling stating that while the plan was not unconstitutional, neither was it was appropriate.
After the ruling was announced, the ruling and opposition camps both declared victory and eventually negotiated an agreement on the question of whether Lien Chan would be allowed to serve as premier.
The ruling and opposition camps have now agreed that Premier Chang should present a report to the legislature, but the question of whether to resume construction of the power plant remains a focus of contention.
p. 65
Plans for the Fourth Nuclear Power Plant have triggered an intense struggle between opponents of nuclear power and those more concerned about industrial development.
A constitutional ruling by the Council of Grand Justices appears to have moved the debate back to square one, with the ruling and opposition parties slugging it out once again.
-LRB-photo by Hsueh Chi-kuang-RRB-