New-found Fame : Three Cyber-authors Dealing with Success
-LRB-Eric Linphoto courtesy of Red Ink Publishingtr. by Christopher MacDonald-RRB-
Cyber-literature has become a publishing phenomenon, with teenage readers idolizing its star authors : writers such as Tsai Chih-heng-who set the ball rolling with his first cyber-novel and is known online as " Slicker Tsai "-along with Chi Chi, and Shuang-tzu.
How do these authors, whose literary apprenticeship has differed so much from that of other, more traditional authors, view the business of writing ?
" Dunno, " is what cyber-authors mostly reply when asked why their works have generated so much interest both in cyberspace and in the conventional publishing trade.
Tsai Chih-heng, whose online work The First Intimate Contact became a bookstore bestseller, elaborates a little : " It's probably just the luck of the draw. "
Tsai released The First Intimate Contact on the web in 1998, while reading for his doctorate at National Cheng Kung University's Department of Hydraulics and Ocean Engineering.
He began by posting the story-based on his own love-life-in installments on a BBS, as a distraction from the pressure of writing his thesis.
" The First Intimate Contact was my first novel, " says Tsai.
" I had posted a few smaller pieces on the web before, in a similar vein, but with my scientific background I never considered myself literary material.
All I was trying to do was write down my own story in novel form. "
Tsai's approach is to write about personal experience, with a touch of imagination thrown in.
" At first I had no intention of finishing the thing, " says Tsai candidly.
" But after a few installments the readers wanted more, and there was pressure to continue.
Eventually I put aside my doctoral thesis for a month or so and drilled off the rest of the novel. "
Tsai acknowledges that because of the immediacy of the medium his online work is to some degree influenced, in terms of form, content and progress, by the response of the readers-" even if a lot of that influence is unconscious. "
The author of Sunny Doll, Chi Chi, has a similar experience.
" Sunny Doll was surprisingly popular after just a few postings, and the enthusiastic response from readers made me anxious to finish the story as soon as possible.
This probably explains the rather slapdash ending, " says Chi Chi.
Of course there are also those like Shuang-tzu, author of Worn-Out Socks, who remain unfazed by readers ' reactions.
In Shuang-tzu's case, this reflects her experience as the administrator of a BBS site.
" The administrator is an impartial observer who does n't get involved in the online discussion, so I learned not to be easily swayed by what is being said, " says Shuang-tzu.
As she points out, however, online stories are often posted several at a time, or abandoned half way through when their authors find themselves too busy for writing.
" It took only a month and a half to write Worn-Out Socks, but before that I spent a year and a half on another novel, Departed Soul, " says Shuang-tzu.
For her, the biggest source of pressure as a writer is the obligation to " finish. "
In order to reduce this pressure she starts with a disclaimer :
" Do n't ask me how it's progressing.
If you do n't see any more installments then maybe there wo n't be any more. "
Most cyber-authors are used to writing directly online, which inevitably makes for some clunky sentences and continuity breaks.
Revisions are always needed before online works can be turned into real books, but the writers are still happy writing the way they do at present.
" I wo n't change the way I release my work, " says Chi Chi, " because it was the web environment that got me writing in the first place. "
Tsai Chih-heng and Shuang-tzu feel the same way.
So far, the critical reception for cyber-literature in book form has not been great, as Tsai Chih-heng and Chi Chi both bear in mind.
Says Tsai : " The success is just a matter of good luck.
I 'll still do what I originally wanted to do-teach at university-and I 'll write as much as I feel I need to. "
On the other hand, Shuang-tzu, who graduated in Chinese literature from Hua Fan University, does have literary ambitions.
" I do n't want to categorize my own works, just so long as they are ' understandable. '
I'm interested in writing bona fide literature, but writing is n't going to be my main profession because I know that economic pressures can get in the way of natural creativity. "
In cyber-literature, casual writing, endless dialogue and wacky goings-on are the norm.
If someone writes it, someone else will read it.
As to the literary merits of the form and whether it will determine the course for literature in the coming century, that's not something that unduly concerns the cyber-authors.
As Tsai Chih-heng, Chi-chi and Shuang-tzu all agree, regardless of fame, they themselves are still free spirits in cyberspace.