Another bloody message received by Lebanon with the assassination of the young minister fighting for the independence and sovereignty of his country, Industry Minister Pierre Gemayel, who worked with the majority to reinstate sovereignty and to put an end to outside intervention.
How is it possible then for the Lebanese to accept not having an international court ?
And is it reasonable that these crimes occur and that the noble sons of Lebanon who fight for freedom and sovereignty continue to be eliminated one after the other, and that certain Arab countries still have reservations about the international court ?
The targeting of the martyred minister who paid for his country's sovereignty with his life, is a message of intimidation from the criminals who have already assassinated former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri and Minister Basil Fleihan and their colleagues, Jibran Tueni, Samir Kasir and George Hawi.
They are also the ones who tried to assassinate Minister Marwan Hamadi and his colleague May Shidyaq.
The killers want to terrorize the Lebanese and spread fear and destabilization, at a time when the international court is approaching them and aims to expose the truth.
Does Lebanon not have the right to set an example by punishing the murderers of its officials and its youth ?
All those who resist the establishment of an international court must see today that the reason for the assassination of Pierre Gemayel was to instigate a coup against those who want to liberate Lebanon and reinstate its sovereignty.
And preventing the adoption of the international court is a response to the will of those murderers who want to eliminate Lebanon's youth and to all those who have a promising future in a sovereign and independent country.
What is noticeable is that the murderers target the youth who have a role to play in the country's future and who follow the principles that Pierre Gemayel followed which are independence, boldness and courage.
Lebanon is being subjected to destabilization and no state, foreign or Arab, has the right to reject the international court.