After a show of combat skills in the techniques of karate and Kung Fu, presented by Al-Azhar University's hooded students wearing black uniforms during a demonstration at the University the day before yesterday in protest of the expulsion of their colleagues who are members of the so-called " Union of Free Students, " the Leftist Tagammu Party accused the Moslem Brotherhood group of returning to " secret organizing. "
An expert in Islamic groups ' affairs considered the return of combat appearances by the Brotherhood group " an extremely troubling matter. "
The group replied through Dr. Mohammad Habib, the Deputy Supreme Guide, who said : " We do not have armed militias. "
Habib stated in exclusive comments to Asharq Alawsat that an investigation is ongoing within the group to find out whether or not those students are affiliated with it.
Hussein Abdel Razeq, Secretary General of the Leftist Tagammu Party, said : " The appearance of these militias is considered another comeback of the special service in the group. "
He added : " This show exposed the lie of the group's claim that it has distanced itself from violence in political action, " noting the existence of a great danger threatening democracy and civil life in Egypt.
Abdel Razeq asserted that " what took place at the hands of the Brotherhood's students at Al-Azhar University was a show of force intended to terrorize the other forces and political movements, " referring to the fact that " allowing the appearance of these militias in the universities indicates that the state is in danger, and also what happened creates a precedent, which is the first of its kind. "
Abdel Razeq called for dealing decisively with this posture and for holding the Brotherhood group accountable for the appearance of militias like these, particularly since the group is not a recognized organization.
He said that the law prohibits parties that are legally recognized from creating military or paramilitary formations, so how are these militias allowed to appear inside a university campus ?