This is in response to George Melloan's Business World column `` The Housing Market Is a Bigger Mess Than You Think ''-LRB-op-ed page, Sept. 26-RRB-.
In Houston, we have seen how bad the housing problem can become.
Unused houses deteriorate rapidly, affecting the value of nearby homes ; in a domino effect, the entire neighborhood can fall victim.
At this stage some people just `` walk away '' from homes where the mortgage exceeds current market value.
But most of them could have afforded to keep up their payments--they chose not to do so.
The problem is so vast that we need to try innovative solutions--in small-scale experiments.
Here are some ideas :
1-RRB-Foreclosed homes could be sold by the FHA for no down payment-LRB-the biggest obstacle to young buyers-RRB-, but with personal liability for the mortgage-LRB-no walking away by choice-RRB-.
2-RRB-Encourage long-term occupancy by forgiving one month's payment-LRB-off the tail end of the mortgage-RRB-for every six months paid ; or perhaps have the down payment deferred to the end of the mortgage-LRB-balloon-RRB-, but `` forgiven '' on a monthly pro-rata basis as long as the owner remains the occupant.
3-RRB-Develop rental agreements with exclusive purchase options for the renter.
An occupant will, in most every case, be better for the home and neighborhood than a vacant house.
In this way, the house is not dumped on to a glutted market.
John F. Merrill
Houston
The Federal Housing Administration, Veterans Administration and the Department of Housing and Urban Development further aggravate the problem of affordable housing stock by `` buying in '' to their foreclosed properties-LRB-of which there are, alas, many-RRB-at an inflated `` balance due ''--say $ 80,000 on a house worth $ 55,000--instead of allowing a free market to price the house for what it's really worth.
Worse, the properties then sit around deteriorating for maybe a year or so, but are resold eventually-LRB-because of the attractiveness of the low down payment, etc.-RRB-to a marginal buyer who ca n't afford both the mortgage and needed repairs ; and having little vested interest that buyer will walk away and the vicious cycle repeats itself all over again.
Paul Padget