Xinhua News Agency, Tianjin, January 17, by wire-LRB-reporter Jianchang Su and intern Suhong Ge-RRB-
Shuzu Wang, head of the Committee Of Foreign Economic Relations And Trade of Tianjin, said recently that Tianjin would strengthen administrating by law and guarantee foreign investment enterprises to normally conduct production and operation activities.
Tianjin is the largest coastal city of northern China.
It is ranked at the top in making use of foreign capital among all large cities in northern China.
At present, there are more than 11,000 foreign funded enterprises, of which over 3,000 have started operations.
With the increase in the number of foreign funded enterprises, various kinds of financial disputes also emerge continuously.
Hence, the Committee of Foreign Economy and Trade of Tianjin has asked every department concerned to insist on dealing with enterprise disputes by law, and improving the quality of service.
Last year, dispute cases involving foreign investment enterprises accepted by Tianjin went down by nearly 40 % compared with that of the previous year.
The rate of resolving cases in the same year reached 97 %, up by 3 % over the previous year, and dispute litigants ' degree of satisfaction with agreement results reached 96 %.
This year, Tianjin will continue to establish and complete relevant local regulations and rules for foreign investment enterprises, so that the production and operation of foreign investment enterprises have laws to rely on.
Up to now, Tianjin and the government have already drafted over thirty local regulations and rules concerning foreign investment, to guide foreign companies in investment, to strengthen management and service to foreign invested enterprises, and to protect legitimate rights and interests of domestic and foreign investors and employees.
The foreign investment management departments and justice organizations insist on administrating according to law and handling cases according to law, so that they have effectively protected rights and interests of each party.
Shuzu Wang said that the management of foreign investment enterprises will also be implemented even more through laws and regulations.
Within the past year, all levels of foreign investment enterprise management departments were administered according to law, listened to foreign merchants opinions numerous times, and implemented a clean up of the phenomenon of illegal charges by some administrative departments.
At the same time, they strengthened the supervision and management work of the execution of contracts by foreign investment enterprises, supervised and urged enterprises to conscientiously perform rights and responsibilities stipulated by contracts, implemented criticism and education for enterprises which breached contracts and gave time limits to amend, and investigated and dealt with those which operate illegally.
Last year, Tianjin carried out a united annual inspection of nearly 8,000 of three-capital enterprises.
-LRB-End-RRB-