Xinhua News Agency, Beijing, February 29th, by reporter Jinsheng Zhang
The National Statistical Bureau forecasts that the global economy will continue growing in 1996 and that this favorable situation is extremely beneficial for China's development and will provide many development opportunities.
According to the forecast, this year's global economic growth rate will reach 4.1 percent.
The main factor promoting economic growth is the still powerful economic development in the Asian region.
The whole region's economic growth rate will reach 7.9 percent, with China's growth rate possibly being as high as 9.7 percent.
According to the analysis of the National Statistical Bureau, the extremely favorable conditions for China's economic development mainly comprise of two aspects : the first being the sustained growth of the world economy and international trade, which indicates the steady expansion of international market demands, provides a comparatively favorable international environment for China's export trade development.
The second is China's large margin reduction of tariffs in 1996 which will further improve its investment environment and attract more foreign businessmen to come to invest.
The analysis shows that, with the situation of greater opportunity and extremely favorable international situations, China's economic development still faces severe challenges this year.
With a background of rapid economic development, there still exist many difficulties, among these are outstanding problems such as inflation, a weak agricultural base, insufficient vitality in state-owned enterprises, etc.
While implementing global trade liberalization, China must implement reforms on state-owned enterprises so as to improve its own competitiveness.
Currently, some state-owned enterprises are having management difficulties, moreover the debt of state-owned enterprises reaches as high as 700 billion yuan, and their product quality is uneven.
If there is no improvement, it will be very difficult for them to participate in the competition in overseas markets.
According to analysis, at present, the rising speed of developing countries ' economies also makes China face fierce international competition in domains such as attracting foreign funds, introducing technology, expanding markets and developing high-tech industries, etc.