Xinhua News Agency, Xi'an, December 25th, by reporters Yong Li and Zuhua Xu
the '98 East-West China Cooperation, Investment and Trade Negotiation Conference will be held at the Shaanxi International Exhibition Center from the April 6-10, 1998.
This negotiation conference is sponsored by the State Council Special Zone Office and provinces and cities such as Jiangsu, Shanghai, Tianjin, Anhui, Sichuan and Shaanxi, etc., and jointly sponsored by the China Information Association, and organized by the Shaanxi provincial government.
Sichuan province and Anhui province are participating for the first time.
It is the second time Shaanxi province has organized this activity after the first East-West China investment and trade negotiation conference held this year.
It is estimated that the number of people attending the conference will surpass 10,000, among whom about 1000 foreign businessmen and representatives of agencies in China were invited having an unprecedented scale.
According to presentations, project negotiations, property right transactions, commodity trade and technological cooperation will be the working focus of the negotiation conference.
Zhibang Jia, standing vice-director of the organizing committee of the negotiation conference and vice-governor of Shaanxi province, says that this negotiation conference will be based on the principle of " mutual benefit, cooperation, development, and comprehensively pushing cooperation between the east and the west towards the 21st century ".
It will highlight the horizontal links and co-operation of east and west areas as the main content.
It will carefully select a number of cooperative projects in accord with national industry policy to attract business from domestic and overseas markets.
At the same time, the western region will also offer its advantageous resources to attract the east to invest in constructing raw material bases, and jointly work on resources development, deep processing as well as labor intensive projects.
Relevant provinces and cities will also use a number of enterprises to actively promote east-west inter-provincial enterprises to implement mergers, affiliations, purchasing, leasing and holding.
Thus the optimization, restructuring and expansion of state-owned assets will be realized to a larger extent.
-LRB-End-RRB-