Xinhua News Agency, Beijing, December 22, by wire
During the year of 1997, which is quickly coming to an end, the five large special economic zones, Shenzhen, Zhuhai, Shantou, Xiamen, and Hainan, have actively established their new dominance, and cultivated new economic growth areas.
The whole economy has maintained strongly increasing momentum, and has continued to build a solid and strong foundation to advance into the new century.
In 1997 the national economy of the Shenzhen special zone has continued to show gratifying growth momentum.
The annual GDP could reach 113 billion yuan, increasing by 16 % over that of last year, with financial revenue within the local budget of 14 billion yuan, increasing 6.3 %.
The state of revenue and expenditure is sound, the financial operations are smooth and steady, and the real estate market is taking a gradual turn for the better.
This year the Shenzhen special zone has vigorously strengthened its foreign economic and trade cooperation by making use of its unique advantage of its position at the forefront of the opening up, and the achievements are remarkable.
The use of foreign capital tends to be varied, and a large number of enterprises in this special zone are entering the international capital market for direct financing.
The annual foreign capital actually utilized is estimated to possibly reach 2.8 billion US dollars, increasing by 15.6 %.
Shenzhen's foreign trade exports are rising rapidly, the proportion of overseas trade and electromechanical exports has increased.
The gross industrial output value of the whole city this year is estimated to reach 125.5 billion yuan, increasing by 17.5 %.
After Hong Kong returns, economic and trade relations between Shenzhen and Hong Kong will be strengthened.
The three large infrastructure connecting projects, such as the channel to the west of Shenzhen and Hong Kong, etc. are currently progressing smoothly.
As a group of large scale infrastructure projects are being constructed and gradually put into use, the three dimensional traffic frame Zhuhai built for cross-century economic development has begun to take shape : the construction of Guangzhou-Zhuhai railway has comprehensively started work, the construction of expressways such as Beijing-Zhuhai, etc. is progressing with much fanfare, the Zhuhai airport and Zhuhai port have been put into operation, the state of operations is great, and yet another group of large-scale infrastructures and their supporting projects are quickly preparing for construction.
The investment environment in Zhuhai is improving daily, providing broad areas for investment by international consortia.
A number of consortia, such as Mobil, Exxon and Amoco of the U.S., Holland's Shell, Japan's Yangu, Hong Kong's Changjiang Industry, etc., have successively settled in Zhuhai.
According to statistics, in the first eleven months of this year, Zhuhai approved 301 contracts for the use of foreign capital, with a contract investment totaling 2.46 billion US dollars, and actually utilized foreign capital of 889 million US dollars, increasing by 11.9 % over the same period last year.
In the construction and improvement of its modernized sea-land-air traffic system, the Shantou special zone sees its seaport and airport as the center and railway, expressway and cross-sea bridge as the backbone, making its location advantages more and more obvious.
By the end of this year, the number of ports and wharves with berths of more than 5,000 tons will reach 26, of which 8 will have berths of more than 10,000 tons, and having annual integrated throughput capacity of more than 21.12 million tons.
Shantou airport has opened 44 international and domestic air routes, and its passenger throughput ranks 11th in the nation's civil aviation system.
The total capacity of program-controlled telephones has reached 778,100 and, on average, one out of every ten people has a mobile phone.
In August this year the foundation was laid for the international seabed fiber optic cable's Shantou landing station, indicating that this place will become an important node in the international communications network.
The changes in location advantages promotes changes in the pattern of the opening up.
At present, Shantou City has approved a total of 12,522 contracts involving foreign capital and actually utilized foreign capital is more than 5.1 billion US dollars.
Of the three-capital enterprises, 4756 have started production and operations.
During the first three quarters of this year, the whole city signed 148 new direct investment projects by foreign businessmen, with actual utilized foreign capital reaching 716 million US dollars.
The total export value for the whole city reached 3.032 billion US dollars, which was 84.3 % higher than that of the same period last year ; and import value reached 2.18 billion US dollars, which was 30.2 % higher than that of the same period last year.
After Xiamen's port became a direct voyage experimental port between both sides of the Straits this year, the freight transport has been filled with new vitality and energy.
Taiwanese big shipping service companies such as Lirong, Wanhai, etc. have successively opened routes to Xiamen's port.
Currently, Xiamen's port possesses five main lines of international container transportation to Japan, Singapore, Korea, U.S., the Mediterranean, etc., forming a container shipping system combining main and branch lines.
This year, in Xiamen, foreign trade imports and exports have maintained a stably growing state.
From January to October, its total import and export value reached 6.41 billion US dollars, increasing by 13.6 %, among which, exports and imports respectively reached 3.52 billion US dollars and 2.89 billion US dollars, both increasing by 13.6 %.
It is estimated that the total amount of foreign trade imports and exports for the whole year will reach 7.7 billion US dollars, increasing by 16.0 % ; and export values will reach 4.2 billion US dollars, increasing by 13.5 %.
During the first ten months of this year, state-owned enterprises in Xiamen exported 1.637 billion US dollars, increasing by 23.6 %, showing relatively strong growth stamina.
Amidst structural adjustments this year, Hainan special zone's economy has realized steady and healthy development and is estimated to have an annual rate of economic increase reaching 6.7 %, increasing by 1.9 % over last year.
The Hainan special zone continues to implement the principles of structural adjustment to vigorously promote the construction of this new industrial province, its high-yield tropical agriculture base and island tourist spots.
Its economic pattern of new industries has shown strong development momentum.
It is estimated that industries of the entire province at the township level and above will have accumulated completed sales values of 23 billion yuan, increasing by 16 % over last year.
The overall benefit of the industrial economy has bounced back, and the industrial enterprises with independent business accounts have increased profits.
In agriculture, while both planting areas for crops have stabilized and the yield per unit area has increased, adjustment has been emphasized and the economic structure optimized.
Advantageous industries such as tropical fruits, melons and vegetables, husbandry, aquatic products, etc., have further achieved development, and the yields of grains, fruits, melons and vegetables, and rubber gum have all reached or surpassed the best levels in history.
Island tourism with its exceptional characteristics has developed rapidly.
The number of tourists coming to tour Qiong annually has reached 7.9 million, and tourism income was 5.5 billion yuan, increasing by 10.29 % over last year.
-LRB-End-RRB-