Xinhua News Agency, Lanzhou, February 15, by wire-LRB-reporter Zhi Qu-RRB-
Currently, foreign funded enterprises in Gansu Province no longer worry about investment risk.
To ensure that the opening up to the outside world can be implemented smoothly, during the " eighth five-year plan " period-LRB-1991 to 1995-RRB-, Gansu Province's foreign affairs insurance industry developed rapidly, and it has already provided an accumulated sum of 61.1 billion yuan in terms of risk safeguard.
Insurance coverages include the four large categories of property, liability, credit and life, with more than sixty primary and secondary risk types.
According to presentations from concerned departments in Gansu Province, since the " eighth five-year plan ", Gansu Province has used foreign investments to vigorously develop.
On the basis of meeting the needs of economic development and overseas investors, the Gansu provincial branch of the People's Insurance Company of China Group caters to foreign businessmen's requirements, providing whole-process insurance which extends from the import of equipment to its transportation, and from installation to the formation of fixed assets, thus helping foreign businessmen to set their minds at ease.
Conventional insurance lines such as transportation insurance, property insurance, automobile insurance, etc. are specially offered to foreign funded enterprises such as the Zhengda Company and the Huaxing Aluminum Firm, etc. and new types of insurance such as employer liability insurance, investment insurance, and profit-loss insurance, etc. are also offered at the appropriate time, satisfying the investment needs of foreign businessmen, bringing the insurance rate of the foreign business invested enterprises to more than 90 percent.
According to statistics, during the " eighth five-year plan " period, the amount of risk People's Insurance Co. took up for the import and export trade of Gansu Province reached 771 million yuan, and paid out 13.855 million yuan as indemnity, effectively promoting the development of Gansu Province's import and export trade.
The " redirection of the Da river to Shaanxi " project mortgaged by the World Bank is the longest gravity-irrigation water conservancy project in the whole country.
People's Insurance Co. in Gansu Province provided all kinds of risk insurance to thirteen of the joint venture contractors and had indemnity reaching 693 million yuan.
They also provided 190 million US dollars of installation insurance for a national key project : the Lanhua Chemical Fertilizer Plant reform and expansion project.
Aiming at the development requirements of the Gansu tourism industry, People's Insurance Co. actively promotes travel insurance for overseas tourists, and took the lead at home in providing insurance for individual overseas tourists, which made sure that all those who came sightseeing in Gansu Province during the " eighth five-year plan " period had insurance.
Gansu Province also actively explored high risk business.
During the " eighth five-year plan " period, it participated in the co-insurance of satellite launching, with a shared risk amount reaching 10 million yuan, and, paying 5 million yuan in indemnity, became the northwest's first company to participate in the aerospace industry.
At the same time, it actively expanded its insurance business in the overseas market, providing nearly 30 million US dollars in comprehensive insurance for construction engineering to the Zimbabwe Highway project that was bid on by an international company in the province ; providing liability insurance of 13 million US dollars for the overseas department of the Lanzhou Petrochemical Machinery Factory and the Singapore Oil Drilling Platform ; providing related forms of insurance for Gansu Province's Overseas Economic and Trade Negotiation Association and for laborers exported overseas ; and also providing complementary insurance services for the overseas business of the Gansu Province Thermoelectric Company.
-LRB-End-RRB-