Xinhua News Agency, Beijing, April 5th, by reporter Guocheng Jiang
" Five years ago, when China's digital telephone program-controlled switch market was monopolized by various brands of foreign products, we worried about whether China could successfully develop digital program-controlled switches.
Today, domestically produced high-performance telephone program-controlled telephone switches already account for 36 % of the domestic market share. "
" When China's National Meteorological Bureau bought mainframe computers from Cray Inc. of the U.S., it just sold us two processors.
Today, the maximum computing speed of the ' Dawn 1000 ' computer we developed ourselves has already reached 2.5 billion operations per second, exceeding the speed of the computer sold to us by Cray Inc. "
This is part of the speech delivered at the working meeting of the " 863 Program " today by Jian Song, State council member and concurrently director of the National Science Commission.
The " 863 Program " is China's high-tech research program, initiated in 1986.
Western developed countries have always restricted the export of important high-tech products, such as high-performance large-scale digital telephone program-controlled switches and supercomputers, to China.
Jian Song said that " Today, China is capable of producing more than 10,000 sets of digital telephone program-controlled switches, and the chief designer of this kind of switch is only 28 years old, graduating from Wuhan University. "
Most of the research staff who successfully developed the ' Dawning 1000 ' computer last year are young people about 30 years old.
Today, Jian Song said to hundreds of high-tech experts representatives and science and technology officials attending the meeting : " The series of achievements we have made in the development and industrialization of high-tech help us to further overcome timid thoughts that high-tech is unattainable.
They have greatly enhanced our whole nation's courage and confidence in realizing socialist modernization. "
The " 863 Program ", with a total investment of 10 billion yuan RMB and a duration of 15 years, since its implementation in 1986, has gained breakthroughs in a large number of significant key fields of technology.
It has greatly narrowed the gap between China's high-tech and the internationally advanced levels, and has promoted the modernization of civilian industry and the national defense industry.
In the civilian fields of biotechnology, information technology, automation technology, energy technology and new materials technology alone, more than 1200 research achievements have been made, of which 560 have reached internationally advanced levels.
This aside, China has scheduled more than 400 research projects in the fields of aerospace technology and laser technology, involving space science and application, jumbo carrier rockets, space stations, space shuttle transportation systems, and has made phased achievements in certain key technology fields.
Jian Song also cited the significant achievements that the internationally advanced level gained in fields such as agricultural biotechnology, biomedicine, genetic engineering, lasers, robotics, etc.
For example, a Chinese developed genetically engineered Hepatitis B vaccine and an " a " interferon for blocking the progress of Hepatitis B have entered the market, which is good news for the 120 million Hepatitis B virus carriers in China.
Later stages of Hepatitis B often develop into liver cancer.
China has determined its focus of high-tech research for the coming five years, and set about drawing up the next century's high-tech research plans.
Finally, Jian Song said, " Whether our own high-tech and its industry can be successful is related to the success or failure of China's undertaking of modernization, and is related to the rise and fall of the Chinese people.
To vigorously develop high-tech and establish a powerful national high-tech industry in our country as soon as possible is an urgent task currently facing China's scientific and technological circles and economic circles. "
-LRB-End-RRB-