To welcome the illuminating 70th anniversary of the birth of the Chinese Communist Party, essays solicited on " on the position of Party branch secretary " meet with readers today.
The opening page wrote about the Party branch secretary of Jiujianpeng village of Pingyi county of Shandong province.
This village is situated on top of a high mountain, from the origin of the name of the village, one can imagine the bad natural conditions and the difficult life of the masses.
In the past, when people from below the mountain came to visit relatives in this village, the best gift to bring was a can of water.
After several years of diligent struggle, this place has changed appearance.
Electric lamps light up the village, wide roads are built on steep cliffs, deserted mountains have turned green, fruit is in abundance.
The key to this change happening is there is a good Party branch who leads the masses to cure poverty and make wealth.
There is Jiakun Liu who was accredited as an " excellent member of the Communist Party " of the province and a " labor model of the entire country ", acting as the Party branch secretary.
He works for the masses and firstly, is not afraid of suffering loss, secondly, is not afraid of hardship, and thirdly, is not afraid of being blamed.
These " three do not fears " are a demonstration of the spirit of communism.
The grassroots organization of the Party is the fighting fortress of the Party among society's grassroots organizations, is a political kernel for uniting the vast masses to fight for the thorough implementation of lines, guidelines, and policies of the Party.
Party branches have a lot of work to do.
The branch secretary, being the leading person, must possess multi-faceted talents, but most importantly must have the communist spirit of serving the people in his heart and soul.
With this spirit, the Party organization will be able to plant roots among the masses, will be able to lead the masses to overcome all types of difficulties, move mountains to fill seas, work well in areas such as agriculture, industry, commerce, education according to policies and decrees of the Party and the nation, lead soldiers well, be a good cadre, and make contributions to the socialist modernization undertaking.
The purpose of this newspaper opening this special column is to spread this type of utterly valuable spirit, introduce working experience of Party branch secretaries, and contribute a portion of strength for promoting the construction of grassroots organizations of the Party.