Xinhua News Agency, Beijing, August 31st, by reporter Changhong Yu
In the prevention and cure of AIDS, mankind's common " super killer ", China is making unremitting efforts.
The Ministry of Public Health has decided to implement a public education program in the prevention and cure of AIDS within the next few years so as to further enhance people's awareness of AIDS and to strengthen the public's ability to protect themselves.
Across the world, the spread of AIDS is extremely critical.
Although China currently belongs to a low infection area, danger really does exist.
Last year, the Ministry of Public Health and relevant departments put forward a strategy for the prevention and cure of AIDS " to focus on prevention, focus on publicity and education and focus on routine work ", and has received State Council affirmation.
Places all over the country have held multiple publicity exhibitions regarding AIDS and the number of visitors has totaled 100,000 people.
The public education program to be implemented includes not only an increase in education of health and technical workers but also education aimed at outpatients with venereal disease and knowledge education for the general public.
This program has received full sponsorship from the Wellcome Company of UK.
Recently, the Ministry of Public Health signed an agreement with Wellcome, which will provide 1.5 million yuan RMB in the next three years to the Ministry of Public Health to use in carrying out this program.
Wellcome is one of the largest pharmaceutical enterprises in the world.
The scientific research work of the corporation concentrates on curative medicine microorganism infections, heart and lung diseases, cancer, diseases of the central nervous system, etc.
Its subsidiaries are distributed all over the world.
In recent years, the Wellcome Company has strengthened its economic cooperation with China and has now established offices in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Wuhan.
Recently, Jiyun Tian and Jieping Wu, vice-chairmen of the Standing Committee of NPC, and Minzhang Chen, Minister of the Ministry of Public Health met separately with Mr. John Luo, chairman and administrative president of Wellcome, who came to China.