Xinhua News Agency, Beijing, September 1st
Jintao Hu, member of the Standing Committee of the CCP Central Committee Politburo, Secretary of the Secretary's Office and President of the Party School of the Central Committee, stressed in his speech delivered at the autumn opening ceremony of the Party School of the Central Committee today, that leaders of all levels should thoroughly study Xiaoping Deng's theory of building socialism with Chinese characteristics more consciously, diligently master new knowledge, continuously strengthen the Party spirit, comprehensively improve their own quality and level of leadership, so as to better fulfill their duties.
This autumn there are now 825 students recently entering the Party School of the Central Committee, including students from every grade from the Advanced Studies Department, Training Department and Graduate Student Department.
Jintao Hu pointed out that they should deal with studies from a strategic altitude, intensify studies with a high sense of historical mission and a realistic urgency, and closely connect new situations, new tasks and new practices to implement studies.
Jintao Hu said that now there are a lot of things we have to learn.
The most basic is to study Xiaoping Deng's theory of building socialism with Chinese characteristics.
We should also study the theory of the socialist market economy and related knowledge, and study modern scientific and technological knowledge.
Jintao Hu asked the students coming to study at the Party School of the Central Committee to endeavor to make outstanding progress in four areas :
Firstly, to endeavor to master the theory's scientific system, further establish a Marxist world view and methodology to better guide new practice with theory.
Secondly, to further comprehensively understand the basic Party line, always having an overall perspective on the work of the entire Party throughout the country, intensifying the consciousness of correct understanding and coping with relations among the three factors : reform, development and stability.
Thirdly, to make a careful study of important problems of strengthening and improving the construction of the Party under the new conditions, bringing the role of core leadership into full play, further improving the establishment of the Party.
Fourthly, to integrate with reality, strengthen the Party spirit, and strictly demand from yourself according to Communist Party member standards.
Jialiao Wang, Standing vice president of the Party School of the Central Committee, also delivered a speech at the school's opening ceremony.
Principals of concerned departments of the Central Committee, Feng Lu, Zongbin Hou, Keyang Zheng, Taifeng Zhai, Fujin Chen, etc. attended the school's opening ceremony.
-LRB-End-RRB-