Xinhua News Agency, Seoul, August 31st, by reporter Shuifu Tang
The first " Le Tian Cup " China and Korea Go competition started today at Fushan, the second largest city of Korea.
In the first round of competition, the Chinese team defeated the relatively stronger Korean team with a score of 4 : 3.
In the competition today, both sides each have 7 Go players participating.
Weiping Nie-LRB-9th level-RRB-, Xiaoguang Liu-LRB-9th level-RRB-, Hao Chang-LRB-6th level-RRB-and Dayuan Cao-LRB-9th level-RRB-from the Chinese team defeated Guibing Cui-LRB-6th level-RRB-, Xiuying Zhang-LRB-9th level-RRB-, Fengzhu Xu-LRB-9th level-RRB-and Xuange Lin-LRB-8th level-RRB-from the Korean team respectively.
Among which, Weiping Nie, Xiaoguang Liu and Hao Chang both achieved victories in the middle games.
Dayuan Cao achieved victory with an advantage of seven and a half ' mu '.
Xunxuan Cao-LRB-9th level-RRB-, Changhao Li-LRB-7th level-RRB-and Changhe Liu-LRB-6th level-RRB-from the Korean team defeated Jing Liu-LRB-5th level-RRB-, Xiaocun Ma-LRB-9th level-RRB-and Jianhong Wang-LRB-7th level-RRB-from the Chinese team respectively.
Among which, Xunxuan Cao achieved a victory in the middle game.
Changhao Li and Changhe Liu achieved victories with advantages of six and a half ' mu ' and seven and a half ' mu ' respectively.
When receiving reporters telephone interviews, Runan Wang, leader of the Chinese delegation presented that, overall speaking, the strength of the Korean team was stronger than the Chinese team.
However, the Chinese team performed better today, and therefore achieved victory.
The performance of our young competitor, Hao Chang, was especially outstanding today, defeating Fengzhu Xu of the Korean team in the middle game.
Fengzhu Xu has won many championships in international competitions before.
He had achieved complete victory in nine games with Chinese Go players before.
The Go teams from China and Korea will shift to Seoul on September 1st, and will hold the second competition in the Le Tian Hotel on the 2nd.
According to the rules discussed and agreed upon by both sides, if the two teams draw with 7 : 7, then the final result will be determined by the result of the competition between Weiping Nie of the Chinese team and Xunxuan Cao of the Korean team.
The prize money of the competition this time is 100,000 US dollars, the team that wins will get 70,000 US dollars, while the team that loses will get 30,000 US dollars.
-LRB-End-RRB-