Xinhua News Agency, Taiyuan, January 3rd, by reporters Lan Wu and Dongping Wang
Shanxi Province, located in China inland, has actually utilized foreign investments of more than 1 billion US dollars in the past six years.
From the Shanxi Province Foreign Investment Utilization Work Conference held at the end of 1997, this reporter learned that, from just 1992 to 1996, the province had utilized a total of 766 million US dollars of foreign investment, quadrupling the total of actually utilized foreign investment in the more than past ten years, and the growth rate exceeded double of the whole country over the same period.
Although faced with some unfavorable factors in 1997, Shanxi's foreign investment utilization still brought about the highest level in history.
185 foreign contracts were signed, a total amount of 2.320 billion US dollars were invested, foreign investment utilized by contract was 1.130 trillion US dollars, and foreign investment actually utilized was 375 million US dollars, increasing 53 % compared with that of last year.
At present, foreign investment has become an important part of Shanxi's social fixed assets investment, and is showing a new trend of developing from the second industry towards the first industry and the third industry, fields of investment are continually expanding, and industry structure tends to be reasonable.
A number of large and medium-sized projects with single investment of more than 5 million US dollars are appearing in the manufacturing industry, power supply, the social service industry, the real estate industry, the building industry, the transportation industry and the postal and communication industry.
The number of persons employed by foreign-invested enterprises has reached 120,000, and the amount of exports accounts for 8 % of the total amount of exports of the whole province.
Shanxi province's borrowed foreign loans account for 65 % of the total amount of foreign investment utilized in the whole province, including loans from international finance organizations, foreign government loans, international business loans, export credits, etc.
Shanxi province has established bilateral government loan relations with 17 countries in the world, and established loan co-operation and free aid relations with international finance institutions and organizations, such as the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the International Agriculture Development Fund, the United Nations Grain Planning Office, the United Nations Children's Fund, the Population Fund, etc. and has unfolded commercial loan business with financial institutions in many countries and areas.
Experts believe that, Shanxi province has many favorable conditions for attracting foreign investment.
Henceforth, the focus of national economic construction will be gradually transferred to the Mid-west in steps, and has reinforced support for foreign investment utilization in the Mid-west areas, and fundamental industries such as agriculture, transportation, raw materials, etc. are still the focus of investments.
Shanxi province is located at the intersection of the Mid-west and the East, and is also an important national production base for coal and electricity commodities, is abounding in resources, with low labor costs and land prices, and possessing an industrial foundation abundant in economy and technology and a broad market.
-LRB-End-RRB-