Xinhua News Agency, Shantou, December 28, by wire-LRB-reporters Weizhong Wang and Datian Yao-RRB-
Guangdong Province's Shantou boosts its new high level technology industrialization, focusing on cultivating a number of major industrialization projects with high added value, high technological content and having broad market prospects.
At present, new high level technology has become Shantou's economy's new growth spot.
According to Yingqiang Zhang, director of the Shantou's Science and Technology Commission, currently, Shantou has preliminarily formed a number of new high level technology industries and backbone enterprises, among which twenty new high level technology enterprises have been recognized by the Guangdong Science and Technology Commission.
Two corporations, Ultrasonic and Ocean, have been recognized as " leading national key new high level technology enterprise groups " by the National Science and Technology Commission.
Moreover, a number of enterprises, such as the Shantou Ultrasonic Instrument Institute, the Shantou Ultrasonic Printing Company and the Shantou Special Economic Zone's General Automatic Electronic Equipment Plant, etc. have each passed the ISO 9000 series quality system's international certification.
Electric automobiles are a major science and technology industrialization project during China's " ninth five-year plan " period-LRB-1996-2000-RRB-.
The State has chosen Shantou's Nan'ao county as the demonstration zone for electric automobile operations testing, and currently, operational testing has now started in Shantou and Nan'ao county.
Shantou is one of China's five large Special Economic Zones.
Since 1993, the Shantou Municipal Government has successively announced strategic policies of " reviving the city through science and education " and " creating science and technology special economic zones ", issued and implemented a " scaling the heights of science and technology plan ", and has adopted a series of measures to accelerate advancing science and technology.
At present, the contribution rate of progress in science and technology to this city's economic growth reaches 40.6 %, and scientific and technological work has shown good development momentum.
The construction of Shantou's New High Level Technology Development Zone has preliminarily taken shape.
Its eastern 1 square kilometer area, which was developed in the first phase, completed factory buildings with an area of 250,000 square meters, with 40 factory buildings under construction, and the completion of a number of such support facilities as the power relay station, the tariff-free zone, and the science and technology hotel, etc.
Currently, 165 new high level technology projects have entered the zone, with gross negotiated investments of 6.2 billion yuan, and foreign investment accounting for half.
One hundred and twenty-two enterprises have entered the zone and 70 of these have their own products.
Since establishing the new high level technology zone three years ago, gross revenue from technology, industry and trade totally reached 3.3 billion yuan, with a gross value of industry output of 2.4 billion yuan, and export foreign currency reaching more than 60 million US dollars.
The popularization and transformation of scientific and technological achievements has shown obvious effects.
In the past three years, by introducing scientific and technological achievements from home and abroad to implement development and application, Shantou has directly created nearly 600 projects with new products, new materials and new technologies.
Among these projects, more than 400 have brought direct economic benefits, creating an output value of over 10 billion yuan and earning more than 500 million US dollars in foreign currency.
By cultivating technology innovation processes of new high level technology enterprises, enterprises have become the main part of technology development and technology application.
The Shantou Ultrasonic Instrument Institute, by adhering to the road of mutually combining imported and in-house research development, has successively researched and developed more than forty new high level technology products, with an annual output value surpassing 100 million yuan.
The ultrasonic visualization diagnostic apparatus, known as " China's B ultrasound ", is sold far away to countries in Europe and America and other regions.
Nowadays, a structurally optimized, capable and highly efficient enterprise technology innovation system has been formed in Shantou, consisting of municipal independent research institutions, enterprise technology development organizations and engineering and technology research and development centers.
Additionally, the Shantou Science and Technology Museum, having modern facilities, completed construction and put into use in November of this year.
As an important base in Shantou for conducting such scientific and technological activities such as scientific and technological exchanges at home and abroad, scientific and technological services, and scientific and technological development, etc. it will play an important role in promoting close coupling of new high level technology and the economy.
-LRB-End-RRB-