Xinhua News Agency, Beijing, January 16th, by reporter Ye Yuan
China's pharmaceutical enterprises, which mainly produce large amount of medicines used as raw materials and imitate foreign chemical medicines over a long period of time, will accelerate the development of new medicines and technologies with their own intellectual property rights.
An official from the State Pharmaceutical Administration Bureau said that, starting this year, financial aid for the research of innovative medicines will be further increased, and State-owned funds would give investment priority to the fields of high technology and innovated medical products.
This year, the State Pharmaceutical Administration Bureau will evaluate and decide the top 50 enterprises in the pharmaceutical industry according to new criteria.
Total annual sales revenue is predicted to be more than 60 % of the whole country's medicine sales revenue.
At the same time, 3-5 % of each enterprise's annual sales revenue will be used for the research and development of new medicines.
This official said that, at the same time, the State should also guide foreign capital to invest in new technologies, new products and medicine projects in the Midwest area, to give impetus to national medicine enterprises to improve products ' technical content and enhance competitiveness in the international market.
China now has about 3,500 pharmaceutical enterprises, which produce 1,350 kinds of medicines used as raw materials and 4,000 kinds of Chinese herbal medicines each year, and is the second largest producing and exporting country of medicines used as raw materials, second only to America.
But due to science and technology content being low, the product's sales price on the international market is 20-30 % lower than the normal price, and can only return more than 1 billion US dollars in foreign currency each year.
While in 1996, importing pharmaceutical preparations alone consumed funds surpassing 1.1 billion US dollars in China.
Now, in China, there are less than 3,000 full time personnel engaging in the research of innovated medicines, only corresponding to personnel on the regular payroll of the research department of Merck Pharmaceutical Company of the US.
Experts urge that China's pharmaceutical industry should change methods of focusing on the production of medicines used as raw materials, while paying less attention to development of preparations, and catching up with development trends of the global pharmaceutical industry as soon as possible.
It was learned that, the national project of new medicines and industrialized development, jointly promoted by departments of the State Science Commission, the Ministry of Public Health, the State Pharmaceutical Administration Bureau, etc., is now being implemented.
By the end of this century, ten new patent protected medicines are planned to be developed and five new medicine selecting centers, five medication safety assessing centers and five medication clinic experimentation centers will be built.
-LRB-End-RRB-