Jie Lang
New Year just started, and more than 30 key personnel in charge of the Tibetan Naqu Regional Committee, Administration Bureaus and ten county offices came to visit the Wenbu Office after traveling a route of over 1000 miles, braving the bitter winter of minus 20 degrees centigrade.
Wenbu is situated on the northwestern side of the Tibetan plateau, and the average height above sea level is close to 5000 meters.
It once was viewed as the " life forbidden zone ", so the so-called " no man's land " is on this stretch of a thousand miles of wasteland.
After 13 years of development and construction, the 120,000 square kilometers of grasslands of Wenbu changed from an old look to a new look.
From unpopulated to populated, from nomadism to fixed habitation, it has now become a new farming zone with cattle and goats all over the hillsides.
The site where the office is located has already become a small town of some scale, and conditions are rather good.
The members of the delegation decided to go to houses of farmers for a look.
Tudengcaiwang, the current Commissioner of the Naqu District Administrative Bureau who had participated before in the development and build-up of the " no-man district " in those years and Jia Ming, the vice-secretary of the Regional Committee, led the leaders from various counties to travel a distance of over 800 kilometers by car to visit herdsmen families in 7 villages.
When they entered the home of Ci Suo, a herdsman of Shenya village, the 45-year-old host treated everybody by pouring butter tea.
The furnishing of Ci Suo's home astonished the visitors : a home of 5 earthen and wooden structures, it has a sitting room with two layers of glass as well as a warehouse filled with mutton and ghee.
One was laden with daily necessities such as cigarettes, liquor, sugar, etc.
A padding with a dragon and a phoenix rejoicing covered the steel-wired bed in the living room, and two radio tape recorders were placed on a pair of Tibetan cupboards engraved with traditional patterns.
Director of the Wenbu Administration Bureau, Jiayangduoji said, Ci Suo and his family belong to the middle class living standard among the Wenbu herdsmen.
Azhen, a herdsman from Asuo village has a family of 15 people, has 1800 goats, 50 yaks, has already sold 750 kg of wool, 50 kg of cashmere, 25 kg of ghee to the nation, and currently has deposits of more than 15,000 yuan.
The visiting delegation came to the home of Bala in Zhongchang village.
Bala's home has more than 300 goats, but this could only be considered as an " extremely poor family " here.
A county head said with emotion, if the " western heaven " in the legends is a " world of extreme happiness ", then Wenbu grasslands should be called the " garden of happiness " where the current generation of Tibetan herdsmen live new lives under socialism.
Wenbu Administration Office's Party Secretary, Gongjuezhalang, who had worked for over 30 years on the northern plateau of Tibet said, we have achieved certain results, but in areas such as education, telecommunication, etc., further diligence remains.