Xinhua News Agency, Beijing, January 16, by wire-LRB-reporter Wenxin Fan-RRB-
Kazuo Nakamura, Director of Research at Japan's Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank, said here today that the real growth rate of the world economy in 1998 will be about 3 %.
Kazuo Nakamura, at a public lecture jointly organized by Beijing's Wu Jia Economic Consulting Company, Ltd. and Japan's Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank, made a report concerning the new year's world economic and financial situation.
After he reviewed the world economic and financial situation of '97, he said that due to the economic growth in Asia, including Japan, further slowing down, the economic growth of America, even though its current economic activity is relatively good, and of other countries will also feel a very large effect.
Compared with the rapid growth of the past, the world economy has entered a period of adjustment.
He forecast that the real growth rate for the world economy this year would fall from the 3.9 % of '97 down to 3 %.
Nakamura thought that the rate of economic growth of Asia's countries and regions, with Korea and Thailand being the most prominent, would slide downward to a large extent.
But, he said, for these countries the currencies already have devalued to a great degree, exports have recovered, and imports could decrease.
Because of this, he expected that their economies would slip downward to the lowest point in the next half year.
He estimated that the rate of economic growth in ASEAN would be about 4.5 percent.
Nakamura said that the Japanese economy exhibited negative growth in the year '97, and that in '98, if it did n't adopt good economic policies, the economy would continue to be in negative growth.
He estimated it would be negative 0.5 percent, plus or minus.
He said further that China's economic growth would also slow in speed, feeling the effects of the economies of Japan and Asia being depressed and of the devaluation of these countries ' currencies.
But because China's usual income and expenditures show a favorable balance, and in addition it has over 100 billion US dollars in foreign exchange reserves, it is n't likely to sink into the crisis like the other Asian nations.
-LRB-End-RRB-