Xinhua News Agency, Beijing, January 14th, by reporter Zongming Zhou
After the successful implementation of a " soft landing ", the rumbling train of China's economy is running forward smoothly at high speed.
" Proper, quick and stable " growth will become the main theme of this year's economic development.
Official authorities revealed that this year the Chinese government determined that the economic growth rate was 8 % and price levels will be controlled within 3 %.
This means that the whole economic operation situation will maintain a healthy pattern of " high growth and low inflation ".
People in economic circles seem to be more optimistic about the economic outlook.
The growth rate, predicted by concerned experts of the State Planning Commission, the Statistical Bureau and the China Academy of Social Sciences, is mostly 1 to 2 percentage points higher than governmental plans.
Of course, to a relatively large extent, this depends on aggregate control of using monetary policy as a primary means, or in other words, under the major premises of general tightening, how financial control should timely and reasonably conduct fine tuning.
Moreover, the impact of Southeast Asia's financial crisis should not be underestimated.
On the part of the government, the keynote of a moderately tight macro-economic policy will not be changed.
The key of the current economy is not striving for a higher growth rate, but is adjusting structures and increasing benefits so as to make macro controls which were implemented from the second half year of 1993 obtain greater achievements and push the national economy onto a road of constant, rapid and healthy development.
Actually, as main obstacles that restrained economic growth in the past several years--inflation and the " bottleneck " of basic industries have all been evidently relieved and the macro-economic situation tends to loosen, China's economic development is in a relatively favorable period.
This year, China plans to create an effective pulling force to economic growth through maintaining a moderate and stable growth of investment, consumption and exports.
Fixed assets investments will grow by 10 % this year, total volumes of retail sales of social consumer products by 10 % and export growth by 8 %.
At the same time, the financial deficit will be reduced by 10 billion yuan.
After bidding farewell to the age of " the shortage economy ", relations between commodity's supply and demand have changed from a " buyers ' market " to an integrated " sellers ' market " and competition will be intensified.
Hence, activating the consumer market, especially the wide rural market, cultivating consumer hotspots and new economic growth points appear to be particularly urgent.
Along with comprehensively implementing hardship relief measures taken towards large and medium-sized State owned enterprises, the pace of State owned enterprise reforms will be accelerated greatly, the dynamics of bankruptcies, mergers and assets restructuring will be strengthened, and enterprise deficits are estimated to decrease by 20 % and a number of competitive large and medium-sized State owned enterprises will gradually form.
However, the large amount of worker layoffs that will accompany this will cause unemployment pressure to gradually increase.
China has determined to appropriately place laid-off workers and to strive to control the unemployment rate to within 3.5 % through implementation of a large scale " re-employment " project.
According to estimates, after three years in a row of bumper harvests, if this year's measures are effective, agriculture still has hope of achieving a good harvest.
Agriculture's increasing production and peasants ' increasing revenues will create favorable conditions for inhibiting commodity prices and realizing the target of steady economic development.
Currently, the degree of dependence on the outside of China's economy has reached 42 %, and the space of utilizing overseas markets and resources is in the process of expanding, but is more easily subject to the influences of the international environment.
Under the circumstances of a relative steady domestic demand, the pulling effect of the trend of foreign trade towards economic development is more striking.
Taking all factors as a whole, this year's amount of foreign trade will be increased steadily, the import will be increased and the increasing speed of the export will be somewhat slowed down.
People in economic circles said that China should adopt positive and steady measures to solve outstanding problems in economic operations, and special attention should be given to clear up bad assets in time and strengthen financial risk prevention.
Forecasting the Year of the Tiger, although China's economic train will have ups and downs, as long as adjusted and controlled measures are at the right time and appropriate, it is believed that the train will move steadily along the preset track.
-LRB-End-RRB-