Xinhua News Agency, Beijing, January 15th, by reporter Yongjian Lu
China's import and export trade has been growing for 15 years in a row, and is beginning to become one of the big countries of the world's trade, in which the flourishing foreign-invested enterprises have been playing an important role.
Since the reform and opening up to the outside, China's foreign trade is developing rapidly, the amount of imports and exports was up from 20.6 billion US dollars in 1978 to 325 billion US dollars in 1997.
Since 1983, import and export trade has been growing constantly and the momentum has not changed as of now.
In the past five years, the proportion accounted for by imports and exports of foreign-invested enterprises in China's foreign trade has been rapidly increasing, which has promoted the development of China's import and export trade.
In 1996, imports and exports of foreign-invested enterprises amounted to 137.1 billion US dollars, 3.13 times that of the 1992 with an average annual growth rate of 33.05 %.
The proportion accounting for total national imports and exports is up from 26.43 % in 1992 to 47.3 %.
In the recently past 1997, in China's import and export trade, state-owned enterprises and foreign-invested enterprises advanced together, state-owned enterprises continue to take the leading position, whereas foreign-invested enterprises are still playing an important role.
The intervention of foreign-invested enterprises has increased the international competitiveness of Chinese import and export products, and also widened trade channels.
Increasing the export of mechanical and electrical products is one of the strategic goals of China's foreign trade, to which foreign-invested enterprises that were established in China have made great contributions.
In 1996, among products exported by foreign-invested enterprises, industrial finished products accounted for 95.7 %, of which the value of mechanical and electrical products accounted for nearly 56 % of the total value of exported mechanical and electrical products nationwide.
The proportion had another increase in 1997.