Xinhua News Agency, Beijing, January 10, by wire
China's land-based petroleum industry achieved great success in the past year : 10 oil gas fields with 100 million ton reserves were discovered in the whole year.
The decreasing speed of eastern crude oil fields has slowed down clearly, whereas the increasing speed of western crude oil fields has been constantly accelerating.
The strategic pattern of " stabilizing the east and developing the west " has basically taken shape.
This was news passed from the working meeting of China's Petroleum & Natural Gas Corporation convened today.
At the meeting, Yongkang Zhou, the general manager, conveyed congratulations on successes achieved by China's land-based oil industry and requirements for future work from Bangguo Wu, member of the Politburo of the Central Committee of the CCP and vice premier of the State Council when listening to the working report of the head office the other day.
Bangguo Wu pointed out that China's land-based petroleum industry achieved great success last year, and oil and gas production volume increased by 1.81 million tons and 730 million cubic meters respectively compared with the previous year ; with nearly 1 million tons of shared oil from overseas, its growth rate was the highest since the " seventh five-year plan " period-LRB-1986-1990-RRB-; its economic benefits were considerable, turning over 25.8 billion yuan of taxes, achieving profits of 10 billion yuan ; making great achievements in scientific and technological progress.
Yongkang Zhou pointed out in the meeting's working report that at present the exploratory development of land-based oil has encountered a series of world-class problems, investment costs are increasing daily, and the tasks of enterprise reform and industrial restructuring are formidable.
With regard to enterprise reform, the strategic reorganization of enterprises should be actively promoted, worker lay-offs and personnel repositioning, downsizing for efficiency, and re-employment projects should be implemented, an assets and operations responsibility system should be promoted overall, the force of reversing losses and increasing profits should be further enhanced.
In tackling key scientific and technological problems, such new oil fields as the western Tarim Basin, etc. should be focused on, new exploration should be prospected, and more oil resources should be acquired.
At the same time, old eastern oil fields should be focused on, extraction ratio should be diligently increased, and levels of oil field development should go onto a new stage.