The title of the theme song for the Championships is very poetic.
It is " Water in Water ".
The words and music of this song were composed by the famous Italian musician Claudio Baglioni.
At the opening ceremony, Baglioni and the 60 year old tenor R. Sceto, sang the theme song together.
Many years ago, Baglioni composed a song named " Little love is as deep as the ocean " and it instantly became a popular hit throughout Italy and made Baglioni widely known as a popular song composer.
But, since 1992, he has disappeared suddenly from the public eye.
When people were commenting on this, he again emerged mysteriously from obscurity and gave " Water in Water " to everyone which became the theme song of this World Swimming Championships.
Baglioni has had a kind of preference for water since birth.
He said, " Water is a topic which haunts repeatedly in my compositions.
Water is a product of nature.
It has the most natural characteristics of everything.
It is an approach to life and is the headspring of consciousness, emotion and music. "
He also said, " Through swimming and diving sports, we come to understand water and feel its extensiveness and power, from which arises the idea of combining with it as one.
Water makes people no longer separated far away.
In singing " Water in Water ", our hearts beat together. "
The mascot of the World Swimming Championship is a little turtle named " Carota ".
The figure of the turtle was designed by the famous Italian designer W. Lonbado.
Its name came from an innocent and lovely little Italian girl.
Although a small turtle is clumsy on the beach, once in the sea, it becomes agile and free.
On the solid shell of the " little turtle " is embedded a map of the world composed of land and oceans.
It implies that good swimming athletes coming from five continents and four oceans assembled together in Rome to strengthen understanding and enhance friendship through competition.
Xinhua news agency journalists Zongxian Zhou and Aiguo Yang
-LRB-End-RRB-