Xinhua News Agency, Shenzhen, February 28
In the coming 5 years, the Bonded Area of Shatoujiao in Shenzhen will bring its location advantages and policy advantages into full play, and use the new high level technology industry as the forerunner, actively restructuring its product structure, and implement an operating strategy assisted by transit trade and warehousing, and build the Shatoujiao Bonded Area into a special comprehensive economic zone operating in accordance with international practices while leading domestically, and make it a rapid growth area of the city's export-oriented economy.
To accomplish the above program, the Shatoujiao Bonded Area not only continues to perfect its relevant material conditions and conditions such as policy regulation, management system, operating mechanism, qualified personnel, etc., but also put forward the following measures as a guarantee.
--Operate in real accordance with international practices.
Take the internationally prevailing " Free Trade Zone " as a reference objective.
Adopt " inside the territory but outside the customs " as the jurisdiction model.
Gradually realize the free circulation of personnel, goods, funds between the zone and overseas, and realize full coupling with international markets.
--Continue to optimize the hard environment and soft environment of investment.
Make the establishing of the Bonded Area Management Bureau as a turning point to realize leadership centralization, institution integration, " one-station " work style, and " process-coordinated " service.
--Actively implement the task of attracting merchants and luring investments.
In the coming 5 years, the step of attracting investments should be accelerated ; industry structures, product structures and enterprise structures will be gradually adjusted.
" Three transformations " are to be realized : to immediately develop from single export processing to comprehensive functionality, to transform from a focus on traditional industries into focusing on developing of the new technology industry, and to transform from a focus on scattered, small-scale investment attraction into actively introducing large industry & trade projects from foreign multinational companies and groups.
According to the " ninth five-year plan " of Shatoujiao Bonded Area, by the end of this century, the bonded area's annual production value of export processing will reach 15 billion yuan, annual export profit will be 1.5 billion US dollars, total annual import trade will be 200 million US dollars, and annual warehousing capacity will be 200,000 tons.
Shatoujiao Bonded Area is currently the earliest established bonded area in China, whose various economic indicators still tops trade in the entire country.
Last year, it realized an industrial production value of 2.05 billion yuan, and earned 150 million US dollars from export.
In the past eight years, traveling merchants from more than 10 countries and regions have successively come to the bonded area to invest.
By the end of last December, an accumulative total of 216 foreign invested enterprises had been approved.
-LRB-End-RRB-