Xinhua News Agency, Brisbane, April 23, by reporter Fa'en Wang
Chinese rising star Li Luo broke through the stiff opposition of gymnasts from Eastern Europe and the USA to win the gold medal on the uneven bars at 29th World Gymnastics Championships.
This was the best result of a Chinese gymnast in 4 days of competition.
There were many other strong competitors taking part in the women's uneven bars.
Russia, Romania and US each has 2 competitors and Ukraine has 1 competitor.
The 17 year old Li Luo scored 9.900 in the preliminary competition to take the lead.
She was the fifth gymnast on the apparatus.
Her performance arrangement was new, difficult and special in style, and showed a high degree of technical proficiency.
She received thunderous applause from the spectators.
After a perfect finish to her performance the judges immediately awarded her the night's highest score of 9.912.
The last gymnast was Russian S. Georgina, who staked everything on her last performance.
Although her movements were smooth, she earned a score of 9.875 due to a lower level of difficulty and picked up the silver medal.
Georgina's fellow team member D. Cochetegiva won the bronze medal with a score of 9.850.
Romanian Mirosoviki, silver medal winner for the overall championships, made a big mistake and only managed sixth place.
Today, there were a total finals in 5 events, the men's floor exercise, the pommel horse, the rings, the women's vault and the uneven bars individual singles competition.
Romania won 2 gold medals.
China, Italy and Byelorussia shared the other 3 gold medals.
Two Chinese male gymnasts Dashuang Li and Huadong Huang took part in the competitions today.
They both won fifth place respectively on the floor exercise and the pommel horse.
Jian Zhang, the head of Chinese delegation, commented that the scores of male gymnasts were the worst in the last 10 years, and explained that levels were falling.
However, all 3 women gymnasts, Li Luo, Ya Qiao and Huilan Mo, taking part in the internationals for the first time, performed well, because they had strong events and their movements had difficulty.
There was almost an upset in the finals of the men's floor exercise.
As a relative unknown in gymnastics, the Greek R. Milisanidis boldly went head to head for the gold medal with the Byelorussian star Shellbo.
Shellbo finally won the gold with a score of 9.725 ; Milisanidis scored 9.687 to share the silver medal with the British competitor N. Thomas.
It was the best result for Greek gymnasts since they began taking part in gymnastic internationals.
Romania won 2 gold medals from 18 year-old M. Uzika, in the pommel horse and from 16 year-old G. Gogiea, on the women's vault, their respective scores were 9.712 and 9.812.
Italian U. Kegie won the gold medal on the rings with a score of 9.787.
The standard on the rings today was the highest of all previous championships.
All 8 gymnasts performed many breathtakingly difficult moves.
Kegie who was in first place in the preliminary showed his energetic and powerful performance and won the final.
The American B. Ovneol won the silver medal with a score of 9.725, the Romanian D. Bulinka and the German W. Belinki shared the bronze medal with the same score of 9.700.
Romanian gymnasts showed solid strength in the final of the women's vault.
Besides Gogiea winning the gold medal, Mirosoviki won the bronze medal with a score of 9.787.
The Russian Georgina won the silver medal with a score of 9.800.
The American Miller, winner of the gold medal for the overall championships, made a big mistake in the competition and only managed seventh place.
To date seven gold medals have been decided at the championships.
The last 5 men's and women's finals in the individual events will be held tomorrow.
-LRB-End-RRB-