Xinhua News Agency, Moscow, August 31st, by reporter Rong Xie
Due to the reported failures of all efforts of the heavy-duty transport spaceship " Progress M-24 ", which is delivering cargo to " Peace ", to dock with the orbital station, the food on the " Peace " orbital station, which lacks supplies, is only enough for the three Russian astronauts working on the orbital station to last for 10 days before the routine scientific research work of the astronauts would be affected.
The International Information Telegraph Agency reports that the heavy-duty transport spaceship " Progress M-24 " was sent into outer space from the Baikonur spaceship launching site on August 25.
Carried aboard were 639 kilograms of such articles as food, water, fuel, scientific instruments, etc.
By design, the heavy-duty spaceship " Progress M-24 ", in unmanned operating mode, can perform automated docking with the orbital station.
But on the 27th, the first attempt of the spaceship to dock with the orbital station failed.
On the 30th, the spaceship attempted to dock with the orbital station again, and the second docking failed again.
Today, the Technology Committee of Russian Space-flight Control Center held a meeting to analyze the reasons for the two failed dockings and decided to perform a third docking attempt on September 2nd.
This time will employ manual control method by the astronauts working in the orbital station to achieve docking from the orbital station.
This will be the last chance for this cargo spaceship to dock with the orbital station because the fuel on the spaceship is already very limited.
If it fails, a new cargo spaceship must be launched to transport cargo to the orbital station.
Also, the Russian Correspondence Agency-Tass reported that the Inter-department Committee of the Russian Space Orbital Station Operations will also convene a meeting today to research countermeasures.
Ivanov, chairman of this committee and commander of Russian Military Space Force, said that the third docking will be completed successfully because space experts on the ground have put out all efforts for this.
Austelouwumuff, vice-bureau chief of Russian Space Bureau also pointed out that all work is currently being carried out normally.
He denied the statement that the food reserve on the orbital station is only enough to last 10 days.
He said that the food on the " Peace " orbital station could still meet needs for 40 days.
Moreover, even if the third docking fails, a new cargo spaceship can still be launched to transport materials.
-LRB-End-RRB-