Lockheed and Martin-Marietta, two old-brand military industrial corporations of the US, announced merging on the 30th, forming the US's largest defense equipment contractor corporation.
Lockheed Company and Martin Company are additional participants in the growing trend of takeovers and mergers of US companies in the last few months.
This trend has spread widely to pharmaceutical and medical instrument companies, telecommunication and high-tech companies as well as retail, banks and railway companies, etc.
According to the statistics of " Time " magazine, from January to July this year, the asset value of takeovers announced by US companies was as high as 171.6 billion US dollars increasing by about half over the same period last year.
Within that, in the first 7 months of this year, takeovers and mergers in total announced by four big US industries, medical treatment, media, telecommunications and banking, reached 1062, accounting for one fourth of all takeovers.
Regardless of whether it is the number of takeover companies or the value of takeover assets, both exceeded or were close to the peak of US company takeovers in the late '80's.
Observers here hold that since 1994, reasons for the US company takeover trend differ from those of the past.
Firstly, the general trend of globalization of the world economy compels companies to expand scale and combine businesses, increase their overall competitive strength and to reduce costs.
Secondly, the Clinton government's thoughts and actions in constructing the information highway, adjusting the financial industry and reforming the medical insurance system compels related companies to make strategic adjustments.
Moreover, the White House's attitude towards anti-trust laws is somewhat more relaxed than before.
Taking the pharmaceutical and medical equipment companies as an example, reforms of hospitals expanding scales of purchasing medicine and medical treatment equipment, and thus reducing unit costs and expanding services, have spread throughout the country.
That the Columbia Medical Company purchased two hospital groups within one month last year, thus integrating pharmaceuticals, medical treatment and sales, is one such example.
For telecommunications companies, the merger of telephone companies with cable TV and wireless communications companies frequently is to mutually complement one another in operations and to dominate the market.
Recently, the US Congress passed an inter-state banking law, allowing regional banks to operate in other states.
Handholding among banks is also to reduce overlapping services so as to reduce costs, to strengthen base assets, and expand credit scales.
For military industry enterprises, the merger of Lockheed and Martin and the combination of two old-brand corporations, namely Northrop and Grumman, are both due to the same reason : after the cold war, the America's national defense expenditures gradually reduced, and the scale and strength of military industry enterprises is one of the conditions necessary for winning limited government weapons purchasing contracts.
Observers here believe that company takeovers has a positive aspect, i.e., the reduction of cost, the increase in efficiency, and the strengthening of competitive power.
But, many takeovers are obviously actions that must be taken for companies to survive.
However, history has proven that " big and complete " monopolies of production and sales is not beneficial to the national economy's healthy development.
For instance, in the '70's, mergers of US steel mills directly led to the birth of a few large-scale unified steel companies, but these companies also faced serious threats from small-scale steel mills, which are flexible in operation and advanced in technology.
Moreover, company takeovers have had bad effects on consumers in terms of product quality and price, and at the same time on workers ' employment.
While voice has been given to the opinion that small enterprises are the new forces of economic growth, scaled operation of big corporations will constantly face new difficulties.
-LRB-End-RRB-