Russian troops held the last ceremony to bid farewell to Germany on the 31st.
Soldiers from three countries, namely, the US, UK and France will also withdraw from Berlin in early September.
The occupying armies existing in German territory will end soon.
On September 1st, 1939, Hitler's army attacked Poland.
It has just been 55 years now since the Second World War II which brought great suffering to the people of Europe and the world.
A total of four million people from European countries died in this war, including those from Germany.
Among them, the USSR made a great sacrifice in the war to win over German invaders.
Its casualties were nearly 28 million.
Half a century has passed in a flash, with Europe experiencing hot war, cold war, turmoil and tremendous changes.
Currently, both the hot and cold wars have passed, but the end of turmoil and conflict is not yet to be seen.
In the early period after the war, the four large countries, namely the USSR, the US, the UK and France, carved out their spheres of influence in accordance with the " Yalta agreement ", and occupied Germany and its capital by districts.
The highest policy-making authorities in Germany then were the " Control Committee of the Allied States ".
Henceforth, Germany was split up and in a powerless state for a long period.
Not long after, the contest between the US and the USSR in Europe caused a split in the original anti-fascist coalition, resulting in German's division into two.
On the western side, the US organized NATO and supported West Germany for the purpose of keeping the USSR " in check " ; on the eastern side, the USSR organized the Warsaw Pact, and built up East Germany as the bridgehead against the West.
Germany, being split up, became the frontline of the cold-war confrontation between the East and West.
Henceforth, there has not been a single day of peace in the political situation of Europe, a crisis-ridden continent.
But, since the start of 1989, a new turn has occurred in the European situation.
Radical changes in Eastern Europe, the re-unification of Germany, the dissolution of the Warsaw Pact and the disintegration of the USSR all occurred successively, causing difficulties in continuing the original " Yalta system ".
In this great change, Germany became the largest beneficiary.
The rise of a re-unified Germany has changed the proportion of strength in Europe, making the UK and France, which originally were large world powers, worry about dropping to second-class big countries.
The US, the only superpower today, has recently started to regard Germany as a " partner in leadership ", encouraging it to " exercise a leadership role " in world politics.
The reason is obvious : the US wants to make use of Germany's strength.
A unified Germany is moving today from a large economic country to a large political country.
Depending on its own tremendous strength, Germany is playing a leading role in the European Union, and its role as a " giant " is obviously seen by common people.
It spares no efforts in playing a " bridging role " between eastern and western Europe and participating in the " peacekeeping mission " under the banner of the United Nations, and is striving to be a permanent member country of the United Nations Security Council.
Currently, the historical post-war period is drawing to an end.
But the lesson of blood and tears and the painful experience it left for later generations still needs to continue and earnestly conclude.
-LRB-End-RRB-