Xinhua News Agency, Nanjing, April 23rd, by reporter Futian Yang
Zijin Mountain Observatory of the China Academy Of Sciences announced today that a nation-wide observation network for the collision of Shoemaker-Levy 9 Comet with Jupiter had been built in China and a large-scale astronomical observation plan had been formulated as well.
According to experts, Jupiter, which orbits the Sun like the Earth, is the largest planet in the solar system.
This incident of observing of the comet colliding with Jupiter possesses extremely important significance in researching and forecasting comets colliding with Earth.
The Chinese astronomy arena also places great importance on this phenomenon of the comet colliding with Jupiter and will closely focus attention on its development and changes.
In the past few days, under the support of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and the National Natural Science Foundation, a seminar on the plan to monitor comet Shoemaker-Levy 9 colliding with Jupiter convened in Nanjing and more than forty astronomers from all over the country attended.
Experts think that this rare and important astronomical phenomenon requires continuous global observation, and that China is located at an important longitudinal position between Japan and Europe, so, China's observational material from is an indispensable and irreplaceable component in the international joint observation.
At that time, China will put all advanced astronomical equipment to use to carry out observation, including 2.16-meter reflecting telescopes, 1.26-meter infrared telescopes and radio telescopes.
25-meter telescopes in the decimeter and centimeter wave bands, 10-meter wave band telescopes and advanced optical telescope terminal equipment will also be used.
Nanjing Zijin Mountain Observatory has more than forty years of experience in the observation and research of comets and asteroids, and its planet research office is the only scientific research organization in China conducting long term research on comets and asteroids, and since 1988 also started researching the issues of the solar system's celestial bodies colliding.
This station's planet experts also attended many international scientific seminars on the dangers of comets and asteroids colliding with Earth.
-LRB-End-RRB-