Xinhua News Agency, Tianjin, January 10, by wire-LRB-reporter Xuejie Man and correspondent Hong Zhang-RRB-
This reporter learned from the Tianjin Port Bonded Area that in 1997 the bonded area comprehensively surpassed quotas on various economic indicators with an average growth rate reaching more than 70 %, ranking the first among China's bonded areas.
According to statistics, last year, the Tianjin Port Bonded Area completed a total amount of 850 million US dollars in investment agreements, increasing by 72 % over the same period of the previous year, with total foreign investment agreements of 700 million US dollars, increasing by 75 % over the same period of the previous year.
It achieved a total volume of 4 billion US dollars of goods going into and out of the area, increasing by 83 % over the same period of the previous year, with a total amount of 1 billion US dollars from imports and exports.
All these were the highest levels in history.
Since being put into operation five years ago, the Tianjin Port Bonded Area has completed the construction of China's first goods distribution center, functions like a customs port, opened up the special use the railway line from the Tianjin Port Bonded Area passing Xi'an and Lanzhou to arrive at Xinjiang's Allah Mountain pass customs port, established a number of large-scale materials circulation distribution and supply centers integrating storage, transportation and sales, opened multiple railway and international container joint-operations with a monthly loading and unloading capacity reaching 6,000 standard containers.
It has built up an installation capacity of 7,000 sets of program-controlled telephones, had a power supply capacity of 25,000 kilovolts, and a daily water supply capacity of 10,000 tons.
Moreover, the bonded area has implemented a series of preferential policies towards enterprises entering the area : it has established a system of " no custom accounting " and established manuals and management ; for enterprises engaged in international trade and storage processing in the area, the equipment and materials needed are duty free, and domestic trade continuing to sell out of the bonded area is regarded as export, for which customs provides tax refunds, etc.
With the daily improvement of the Tianjin Port Bonded Area's investment environment, foreign businessmen coming to invest are increasing daily.
Last year, there were thirteen large projects of over 20 million yuan alone.
CALTEX and Caterpillar from the US, Japan's Itochu, South Korea's Daewoo and the New World Consortium from Hong Kong had been successively entering the zone to invest and open business.
While foreign investments were flocking in large numbers, twenty large and medium-sized state-owned enterprises also entered and settled themselves in the zone last year, investing a total of nearly 200 million US dollars.
According to statistics, in the past five years, Tianjin Bonded Area has attracted a total of over 3000 enterprises from 73 countries and regions all over the world and 25 domestic provinces, cities and municipalities to invest, reaching a total agreed investment value of more than 3 billion US dollars and a total agreed foreign investment reaching more than 2 billion US dollars.