Xinhua News Agency, Hangzhou, March 10th, by wire-LRB-reporter Yinkang Cao-RRB-
Zhejiang Province will further raise the level of opening up to the outside world, diligently expand its foreign trade, and use foreign funds and international economic and technical co-operation to progressively perfect its marketing network of foreign economic and trade business.
This objective is stipulated in the outline of the foreign economic and trade development plan of the " ninth five-year plan "-LRB-1996-2000-RRB-formulated by Zhejiang province.
Up to now, 34 cities and counties in this province are listed as coastal open economy cities and counties, covering 44 % of the whole province's total area, among which, there are 7 national level development zones of various kinds and some provincial level economic development zones and provincial level agricultural development zones as well.
Additionally, Daxie Island of Ningbo, whose whole-area development and construction was approved by the State Council, is implementing preferential policies for the economic and technological development zone.
It is also decided, in Zhejiang's economy and trade development program for the " ninth five-year plan ", that from now on the focus should be on comprehensively promoting opening up to the outside world and on taking development to a higher level, a wider domain, and a greater depth.
It should center on fully playing its role as a forerunner in such central cities as Hangzhou, Ningbo, Wenzhou, etc., so as to strengthen and accelerate the dynamics of the opening up of Zhejiang's Midwest areas and agriculture, the islands and the sea to the outside, and should explore Sino-foreign joint investment and co-operation experiments in expanding finance and retail commerce, and strive to create new advantages in the development and opening up of the Yangtze Delta economic belt.
According to investigations, in the next five years, Zhejiang will vigorously implement the ' dragon's head ' program for exporting commodities, start up its foreign trade development funds, cause the growth pattern of foreign exports to change from an extensive, quantitative model to an intensive, results-oriented model, and form new growth advantages for foreign trade exports.
It will guide the foreign funds mainly to their utilization in the investment of infrastructure facilities, raw material industry, agriculture, new high level technology and new industries, and will actively explore such investment methods as enterprise property rights transfer, etc. and open up new channels for utilizing foreign funds.
According to the target set for this program, by 2000, Zhejiang Province's total volume of imports and exports will reach 20 billion US dollars, including 15 billion US dollars from exports and 5 billion from imports ; the volume of foreign funds to be utilized during the " ninth five-year plan " period will reach 6 billion US dollars, including 5 billion US dollars of direct investment by foreign businessmen.
-LRB-End-RRB-