Xinhua News Agency, Weihai, March 6th, by reporter Yanfeng Hou
For Weihai City, in Shandong, which faces Korea across the sea, Korea has become the largest investment trade partner of this city, in foreign trade and economic cooperation.
According to presentations by Pu Zhang, vice mayor of Weihai City, in 1996, Weihai authorized 113 projects directly invested by Korea, with contracted values of utilizing foreign funds of 300 million US dollars, accounting for 58 % and 69 % of the projects of introducing foreign funds by the whole city and contracted value of utilizing foreign funds in the same year respectively.
Korean investment enterprises of the whole city totally reached 566.
The total value of imports and exports to Korea was 1.23 billion US dollars last year, accounting for nearly 60 % of the total value of imports and exports of the whole city that year.
Weihai was one of the earliest areas of Mainland China to implement economic and trade cooperation with Korea.
In recent years, a number of Korea investment industrial projects of relatively larger scale have successively settled in Weihai.
Of the four industrial projects, in 1996, in the Weihai Economic and Technological Development Zone, for which the investment total surpassed 20 million US dollars, there are three that are Korean investments.
The project of Shandong Daewoo Automobile Parts and Components Co., Ltd., that Korea's Daewoo Corp. is participating in investing in, has a total investment exceeding 2 billion yuan RMB and an annual production of automobile parts and components that could accessorize 200,000 to 300,000 cars.
The project for " Heibao " agricultural vehicles that the Korea C-Win Industry Co. and the Weihai economic and technological development zone jointly invested 29.8 million US dollars in, has a total design capacity reaching 600,000 cars annually produced.
At present, the first phase of the project, which annually produces 100,000 vehicles for agricultural purposes, has been completed and put into production.
Additionally, the Weihai economic and technological development zone also cooperates with relevant regions in Korea, and has established so far Shandong's largest exclusive Korean investment industrial park-the Qingnan syndicate.
At present, the Qingnan syndicate has approved 12 entering projects, with a total project investment of 73.1 million US dollars and has preliminarily formed three large industries, taking automobile and automobile parts and components processing as the focus.
Pu Zhang estimated that, in 1997 the total Korean investment actually utilized in Weihai would possibly break through 100 million US dollars, the value of imports and exports traded to Korea would be 1.5 billion US dollars, and the value of processing trade with Korea would be 1.4 billion US dollars.
Weihai will become an important overseas processing and assembly base to Korea.
-LRB-End-RRB-