Xinhua News Agency, Beijing, February 13-
According to the statistics of the People's Bank of China, up to the end of last year, the balance of loans in RMB of Chinese financial organizations towards three-capital enterprises had reached 99.56 billion yuan.
This number was an increase of 20.33 billion yuan, a growth of 27.6 %, compared to the end of the previous year.
It is understood that in the past few years, as China's economy has continued to develop and the opening up to the outside has continued to deepen, foreign businessmen are highly enthusiastic about investing in China, and the number of investment projects as well as the amount of investments have grown very rapidly.
According to statistics, to date China has already collectively approved nearly 259 thousand foreign investment projects and 135.4 billion US dollars of foreign investments was actually put to use.
Currently, there are already more than 120 thousand foreign-invested enterprises operating in China, and most of the foreign-invested enterprises that have already operated are doing well in production and management.
According to statistics from the National Administration of Taxation, last year the income tax paid by foreign-invested enterprises and foreign enterprises in China was 7.567 billion yuan, an increase of 57.1 % as compared to the previous year.
It is understood that currently, of all the loans in RMB acquired by foreign-invested enterprises, close to half were provided by the Bank of China.
Last year alone, the Bank of China provided an accumulated total of more than 69 billion yuan of RMB loans to foreign-invested enterprises.
In addition, the bank also issued more than 4 billion US dollars in the form of foreign exchange rate and spot exchange rate loans to foreign-invested enterprises.
These loans were mainly to support the basic raw materials, chemical, and mechanical industries, etc.
According to statistics, by the end of last year, the accumulated loans issued at foreign exchange rates and spot exchange rates as well as in RMB by the Bank of China to foreign-invested enterprises was 21 billion US dollars and 259.3 billion yuan, respectively, and the balance of loans in RMB was close to 45.4 billion yuan.
At present, about 150 thousand foreign-invested enterprises have opened accounts in the Bank of China, of which, more than 20 thousand enterprises have received loan support from the Bank of China.
A relevant official from the Bank of China revealed that this year, the Bank of China will continue to play a leading role in supporting foreign-invested enterprises, and the size of loans given to investment enterprises will maintain a moderate growth.
The loans will be in favor of infrastructure industries such as energy sources, transportation, and electrical power, etc., especially focusing on large-and medium-scale enterprises set up in China by large foreign companies.
Beyond this, enterprises with advanced skills, high technology, high imports and exports, and high profits and taxes will receive loan support from the Bank of China.
-LRB-End-RRB-