Xinhua News Agency, Chongqing, January 16, by wire-LRB-reporter Pei Li-RRB-
An official from China's Petroleum and Natural Gas Corporation, when being interviewed recently by a reporter from this news agency, said that China will further accelerate prospecting and development natural gas resources of the Sichuan Basin to increase backup reserves and output, and is preparing to fully utilize natural gas resources, and to develop the natural gas and chemical industry.
Currently, the natural gas resources found along the upper and middle reaches of the Yangtze River are mainly distributed in Sichuan Province, the Chongqing Municipality and the northwestern area of Hubei Province, among which Sichuan Province and the Chongqing Municipality's natural gas resources are the richest.
Oil exploration area has reached 180,000 square kilometers, with a total resource magnitude of 7 trillion cubic meters.
By the end of 1997, the totally explored reserves were 510 billion cubic meters, among which the Chongqing area had 260 billion cubic meters, and a total of 86 gas fields were achieved.
In recent years, China has been paying close attention to development of the natural gas industry, and has drafted a development strategy for the land-based petroleum industry of " stabilizing the east, developing the west, and increasing oil and gas ".
In the Sichuan Basin alone, the richest of China's three great land-based natural gas reserves, an accumulated amount of 163.3 billion cubic meters of natural gas has been produced in the past 40-odd years.
The production has basically satisfied the needs for household fuels of a number of large and middle-sized cities such as Chengdu, Chongqing, etc. and has resulted in China's largest vinylon production line with natural gas as its raw material-the Sichuan Vinylon Factory.
Natural gas has become the most important raw material resource for energy and chemicals in Sichuan Province, Chongqing Municipality and areas of Southwest China.
During the " ninth five-year-plan " period-LRB-1996-2000-RRB-, Sichuan Basin's natural gas annual production capacity will reach more than 10 billion cubic meters, among which 5 billion will be from the Chongqing region.
Recently added natural gas of more than 3 billion cubic meters will be mainly in Chongqing.
Administrator Binggang Zhu said that China Petroleum and Natural Gas Corporation will utilize this recently added capacity to develop natural gas chemical industry in the recently approved municipality of Chongqing which has a solid industry foundation.
He said that China Petroleum and Natural Gas Corporation will build a new large-scale fertilizer factory in Chongqing with an annual production scale of 450,000 tons of synthetic ammonia and 800,000 tons of urea at an annual gas consumption of 500 million cubic meters.
The total investment is 3.82 billion yuan, among which 1 billion is self-raised capital.
The construction period is 3 to 4 years.
Relevant experts believe that this project is very advantageous no matter whether you are talking about market demand for fertilizer in the Chongqing area, or the reasonable utilization of natural gas resources, or the economic benefits of enterprises are concerned.
Moreover, this corporation is also planning to construct an ethylene factory with natural gas as its raw material through co-operating with foreign companies, and will annually produce 300,000 tons of ethylene.
This project has invested around 6 billion yuan RMB, and upon completion, will change the state of transferring almost all the needed chemical raw materials from other places to the areas of Chongqing and Sichuan.
Binggang Zhu said that during the " ninth five-year-plan " period, the total investment of China Petroleum and Natural Gas Corporation in oil and gas prospecting to develop the upper reaches of the Yangtze River will reach 10 billion yuan in the area of Chongqing.
After approval of the natural gas chemical industry project, more than 10 billion yuan will be further invested in construction.
This is more than the sum invested in the past 40 years.
He said that while the gas consumption of Sichuan Province and Chongqing Municipality is guaranteed, the project also takes into consideration the co-ordination with the construction of the Three Gorges Project, which has attracted world-wide attention.
It can transport part of the gas commodity to other provinces and cities, and will gradually connect with China's other natural gas pipes to form a national natural gas pipe network.
-LRB-End-RRB-