Xinhua News Agency, Beijing, September 1st
When meeting with the Governor of Macao Viera here today, Premier of the State Council Peng Li said the policy of the Chinese government towards Macao is consistent, firm and unchanging, and that the Chinese government would, in accordance to the policy of " one country, two systems " and strictly according to the regulations in the joint declaration between China and Portugal and the Basic Laws of Macao, maintain the stability and development of Macao.
Peng Li expressed welcome at the periodic visit of Viera.
He said : " In recent years, the friendly co-operative relationships between the two countries namely China and Portugal in various arenas have been developing continuously, mutual visits by top level leaders of both countries have also increased.
President Zemin Jiang, Vice President Yiren Rong and myself have all visited Portugal, and Prime Minister Shewar visited China in April of this year. "
He said, the smooth development of the bilateral relationship between China and Portugal established the foundation for co-operation on the Macao issue.
Peng Li pointed out, the Macao issue was an important component of the relationship between China and Portugal.
Maintaining good relationships between the two countries of China and Portugal, as well as the inland and Macao, is beneficial for the social stability and economic development.
Peng Li said since the joint declaration between China and Portugal came into effect, both sides had done quite a lot of work in the thorough implementation of the joint declaration, and that co-operation has been effective.
In recent years, under the joint effort of both sides, many issues of mutual concern to both sides had been resolved, various degrees of progress have been achieved in the three major issues, namely languages, civil servants, and laws in the transition period of Macao.
He said : " We hope that the Macao government will continue to give their attention to these three problems, in order to achieve final proper resolution. "
Peng Li said, " Governor Viera has done a lot of beneficial work in the smooth resolution of the Macao issue, for this we express our appreciation. "
Peng Li also emphasized, with the approach of 1999, that there is still a lot of work to be done by both the Chinese and Portuguese sides on the Macao issue, and that the mission is very important.
Both sides should resolve the outstanding issues in the spirit of friendly consultations.
He hoped that the Macao government would further strengthen the consultations and co-operation with the Chinese side on the major issues regarding the stable transition of Macao and the smooth handing over of political power, in a way that would be beneficial to the stability and development of Macao.
Peng Li said : " We believe, through the friendly co-operation and joint effort of both the Chinese and Portuguese sides, the stable transition and smooth handing over of the political power would definitely be realized.
Viera happily recalled the two meetings he had with Premier Peng Li in 1991 and 1992, and highly assessed the important contributions made by the Chinese government and Premier Peng Li himself in the development of the relationship between Portugal and China and the resolution of the Macao issue.
Viera said, he was glad to see that China had achieved great progress in the areas of economic and social life, and expressed complete understanding that the modernization build-up needed to be carried out under stable situations.
He said, the stability and development of China was beneficial to world peace and development, and that the prosperity and stability of China was the basic guarantee for the prosperity and stability of Macao.
He and the Portuguese government would continue to put forth effort towards the continuous development and smooth resolution of the Macao issue.
-LRB-End-RRB-