On the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the establishment of ASEAN, the heads of the nine ASEAN countries and the heads of China, Japan and South Korea held an informal meeting in Kuala Lumpur, capital of Malaysia, on the 15th.
The next day, the heads of China, Japan and South Korea held informal meetings again with the heads of the ASEAN countries separately.
This informal meeting of heads of Eastern Asian countries, the first time in history, is a good start.
After the end of the cold war, ASEAN confronted new international and regional situations and comprehensively adjusted its development strategy and foreign relations strategy, and increasingly became a cooperative organization in the southeast Asia region based on economic cooperation and integrating politics, economy and security.
ASEAN, with China, Japan and South Korea, strengthened their cooperation and jointly planned development, becoming a force that holds the balance.
Therefore, the holding of the informal meeting of heads of the countries in eastern Asia possesses important significance in promoting cooperation between all countries, in safeguarding regional and global security, and in accelerating the development towards world multi-polarization.
The development of countries can not be separated from the region, and that of the region can not be separated from the globe.
Discarding old concepts and establishing new international political and economic orders conforms with the main trend of the times in which people of all countries demand peace, request development, seek stability and promote cooperation.
To correctly understand the relationship between economic development, political stability, social harmony and national security, to diligently promote all countries, regions and the whole world to travel on the road of peaceful development, to jointly discuss east Asian economic cooperation in the 21st century and forecasting the future development of eastern Asia are subjects being discussed at this informal meeting of heads of state in eastern Asia.
Peace is a precondition to economic development.
Without a peaceful environment, any construction undertaking would be impossible to discuss.
Only when long-term peace is realized can the realization of sustained development be possible.
Therefore it is necessary to breed a new kind of security concept and to seek new methods to safeguard peace.
To establish relations between countries on the basis of the five principles, namely mutual respect of sovereignty and integrity of territory, non-aggression, non-interference in internal affairs, equality and mutual benefit, and peaceful coexistence, is the political basis and precondition for global and regional security.
That all countries strengthen their mutual benefits and cooperation in the field of economy, open up to each other, eliminate inequalities and discriminatory policies in economic and trade transactions, gradually narrow the development gaps between countries and strive for joint prosperity is the economic basis for global and regional security.
That all countries promote mutual understanding and trust through dialogue and cooperation, and promise to settle disputes and conflicts between countries in peaceful ways is a realistic way to ensure peace and security.
This year some countries in eastern Asia encountered financial turmoil and have had some difficulties in their economic development, but the economic basis of east Asian countries is still good and advantageous factors for economic development still exist.
In the course of this meeting, leaders of east Asian countries unanimously supported the suggestion to expand local trade and investment.
It is believed that after reviewing experience and implementing proper adjustments, the economy of eastern Asia will definitely continue to move forward in development.
The east Asian countries are not entirely without conflicts and disputes.
But in order to safeguard fundamental benefits to the people of all east Asian countries, and to promote the lofty cause of peace and development for mankind, we must progressively strengthen the east Asian cooperation.
Chairman Zemin Jiang solemnly elaborated on China's stand at this meeting.
He emphatically pointed out that " We should uphold the principles of mutual respect, equal participation, mutual benefit, and co-development ; we should strengthen cooperation in economy and technology, especially in the field of new high level technology, and establish reasonable regional economic structures, and form a mode of economic cooperation on the basis of learning from others ' strengths and offsetting others ' weaknesses, and mutual benefiting from advantages, balancing interests, and practicing non-exclusiveness and non-discrimination ; and we should strengthen trust, broaden common understanding, seek common points while maintaining differences, and resolve disputes appropriately through friendly dialogue and consultation to guarantee the region's peace and stability. "
Everything is difficult at the very beginning.
With this good start, people have good reason to believe that the coordination and cooperation between east Asian countries will certainly show more hopeful prospects in the near future.
-LRB-End-RRB-