Xinhua News Agency, Beijing, January 12th, by reporter Yongjian Lu
This reporter learned from parties concerned that the number of employees in foreign invested enterprises spread all over China has reached 17.5 million people.
Attracting foreign investment has become an effective method in relieving employment pressure for this country who has the largest population in the world.
Since the establishing the earliest New China foreign invested enterprise-the Beijing International Catering Company in 1980, China approved a cumulative total of 300,000 foreign invested enterprises.
With the breaking of the ' iron rice bowl ', quite a number of Chinese are willing to seek job opportunities in foreign invested enterprises providing higher salaries.
According to statistics, the successive launch of operations of the 145,000 foreign invested enterprises, the number of direct job holders reached 17.5 million, whereas foreign staff are only a few hundred thousand people.
Employees in foreign invested enterprises are dispersed across industries, the real estate public service industry, the commerce and catering service industries, the construction industry, the farming, forestry, animal husbandry, side-line production and fishery industries, and the traffic, transport, and postal industries.
In recent years, some Chinese employees have gone to work in some sporadically appearing foreign capital financial institutions.
When talking about foreign invested enterprises, quite a number of people think of ' white collars ' with very straight western-style clothes.
This refers to the Chinese management staff of foreign invested enterprises.
They make diligently study advanced technologies and modern management experience in foreign invested enterprises, and from one aspect, brings along the increase in citizen's quality.
A large number of employees in foreign invested enterprises are blue-collar workers in processing workshops who are too busy to break.
Among foreign invested enterprises approved by China, 70 % are industrial projects and the processing industry is on the high side.
This is consistent with the situation of China that is characterized by a labor force of relatively low quality and cost, as a result it has attracted a large labor force.
If we consider the fact that a number of enterprises will more or less appear in various regions to support those foreign invested enterprises, job opportunities that foreign invested enterprises had created in China will be more substantial.
China regards attracting foreign investment as an effective method to relieve the employment pressure.
According to presentations, China will continue to put in more effort to attract foreign investment, strongly advocate providing accessories for technologies and capital intensive foreign invested projects, and continue to regard labor intensive processing industry projects as targets to encourage development.