Xinhua News Agency, Beijing, April 23rd
The 6th national members ' representative convention of the China's Red Cross Society opened today in Beijing.
The convention approved the new list of leading members with Zemin Jiang as honorary chairman, discussed the compendium of work programs for the five years, 1995 to 1999, and established a work direction of " conscientiously administer Red Cross regulations and diligently develop the Red Cross cause with Chinese characteristics ".
This year is the 90th founding anniversary of China's Red Cross Society.
After 1950, when the China's Red Cross Society was re-organized through consultation, it has been a social aid organization engaged in humanitarian work, and has done a great deal of work.
China's Red Cross Society was the first Chinese organization to regained a legal seat among international organizations.
In its special status, it has widely developed civil diplomatic activities, and has played an important role in publicizing New China on the international stage.
In recent years, the Red Cross Society of China has played a special role in the area of normalizing relations between both sides of the Straits, and through actively developing bilateral, multi-lateral exchanges with Red Cross Societies of various countries and the International Red Cross Organization, has promoted friendly international exchange and co-operation.
On October 31, 1993, the Standing Committee of the 8th NPC formally passed the " Laws of the PRC Red Cross Society ", reflecting the state's high-level recognition and support of the humanitarian cause of the Red Cross.
It has provided a legal guarantee to the development of China's Red Cross cause and connections with the International Red Cross movement, signifying that China's Red Cross cause has entered a new historical phase.
The list of leadership of the 6th session of China's Red Cross Society approved at today's meeting includes : Puchu Zhao, Guangying Wang, Peiyao Li, Xinzhong Qian, Yueli Cui and Minzhang Chen as honorary vice-chairman ; Zhengying Qian, vice-chairman of the CPPCC, as chairman ; Yingqi Gu as standing vice-chairman ; Baojun Fan, Chongchun Yang, Yanzhi Lin, Baiqiu Sun and Zhe Qu as vice-chairman ; and Changming Li as secretary general.
George Weber, secretary general of the International United Association of the Red Cross Society and the Red Crescent Society sent a congratulatory letter to today's meeting.