Xinhua News Agency, Biskech, April 23rd, by reporters Shuchun Zhou and Mengjun Ju
This afternoon, premier Peng Li and Zumegloph, premier of the Kirghizia government held a comprehensive and in-depth talk concerning developing bilateral economic and trade relations.
The talk was held in a practical and friendly atmosphere.
Zumegloph said that the two countries of China and Kirghizia had a traditional friendly relationship and this relationship was increasingly strengthened and continuously developing.
He said that, now Kirghizia was at the phase of economic reform and paid much attention to strengthening economic connections with China and using the experiences of China for reference, including the experiences of China's agricultural reform.
He said that Xinjiang and some other regions of China had already established more than 70 joint venture enterprises, including food, fur, etc., in Kirghizia and the operation condition was good, and the specialists of both parties were demonstrating on cooperative projects of paper making, sanitation, medicine, etc.
Zumegloph also made a presentation to Peng Li about Kirghizia's economic situation.
Peng Li said that the economic difficulties Kirghizia faced with during the reform were temporary, and that only after through diligence could it be completely overcome.
Peng Li said that in the past two years or more, economic trade and cooperation between the two countries has begun smoothly and has made considerable progress.
Bilateral trade has developed very rapidly but still had potential.
The Chinese government, especially the Xinjiang Uigur Autonomous Region, would endeavor to develop cooperation with Kirghizia in various fields such as economy and trade, etc.
From now on, the two countries would explore and utilize the advantageous conditions of the two countries more fully, act according to rules of economy, guarantee that bilateral benefits, continuously enrich the shape of cooperation and improve the level and class of the trade of the two countries.
Because of this, both parties should endeavor to create conditions, including solving problems of traffic and transportation that hinder the development of economic and trade cooperation.
Peng Li also said, " This time there are a number of entrepreneurs who have come with me to visit, and both sides can enhance contact.
The Chinese government encourages and supports China's enterprise circles in participating in Kirghizia's economic construction on the basis of equality and mutual benefit. "
Premier Peng Li invited premier Zumegloph to visit China at his convenience.
Zumegloph expressed his thanks for this and accepted the invitation happily.
-LRB-End-RRB-