Xinhua News Agency, Washington, DC, December 21, by wire-LRB-reporter Jingsheng Zhai-RRB-
On the 21st, the International Monetary Fund released here a provisional assessment report, and once again lowered its forecast for the speed of growth of the world economy for this year and next year.
The report held that the effect that the Asian banking crisis was having on the world economy was even more serious than previously estimated.
It estimated that for the world economy this year's rate of growth would be 4.1 %, next year falling to 3.5 %, and that this year is the year with the slowest growth in the last 5 years.
Compared to the forecast that the above-mentioned organization published in October, this is lower by 0.1 and 0.8 percentage points, respectively.
The IMF furthermore lowered the forecasts of next year's economic growth for a large number of regions and countries.
According to its newest estimates, the rate of economic growth of industrialized countries this year will be 3.9 % and next year it will be 3.6 %.
Among them, America's rate of economic growth next year will fall from this year's 3.8 % down to 2.4 %, and Japan's rate of economic growth next year will be only 1.1 %.
It estimated that the developing countries ' economies will grow 5.9 % this year, and next year will only grow 4.9 %, lower by 1.3 percentage points compared to the October estimate.
Among them, the rates of growth for this year and last year for the Asian regions are estimated at 6.8 % and 5.7 %, respectively, lower by 0.9 and 1.7 percentage points compared to the previous forecast.
The economic growth of such countries as Korea, Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia, and the Philippines all will clearly slow down.
The IMF also made a new forecast for trends in world trade in commodities and labor.
It estimated the extent of growth in global trade this year to be 8.6 %, dropping to 6.2 % next year.
Within this, the extent of trade growth for industrialized countries this year and next year will be 9.3 % and 6.1 %, and the extent of growth for developing countries will be 9.6 % and 7.7 %.
The report observed that if economic and banking policies are effective, the economies of the Asian region hopefully would start rising again in 1999, but they would not be likely to exhibit a large, high-speed, V-shaped rise like that of Mexico and Argentina following the fiscal crisis of 1994-1995.
If reform measures are not effective, a crisis of confidence will still exist, and in that case there is the possibility that investors will turn their attention to other, newly rising markets.
-LRB-End-RRB-