Xinhua News Agency, Nanchang, December 7th, by reporters Qiusheng Jiang, Ping Li, and Yi Liu
Jiujiang Minsheng Group Co. Ltd., located at the foot of the world famous Lu Mountain, has ascended to be one of China's top 500 privately owned enterprises.
When referring to the achievements made in recent years by greatly investing in national infrastructure, Xiang Wang, concurrently a member of the national CPPCC, a member of the Standing Committee of the Jiangxi Province CPPCC, president of the Group, etc. said frankly to the reporters that " basing ourselves in the inland and ' building bridges and paving roads ' for the development of the local economy was a wise choice on my part. "
Although already over fifty, Xiang Wang is full of energy and quick-witted, and gives others the impression of an aggressive person.
The Minsheng Group's contributions to improving Jiujiang's infrastructure in the past two years are known to everybody in Jiujiang.
Jiujiang is the northern gate of Jiangxi, and is one of the major cities to be opened up and developed along the Yangtze River.
Xiang Wang participated in the construction of the Jiujiang Railway Station by investing the huge sum of 127 million yuan.
While inspecting Jiujiang, Chairman Zemin Jiang said that " Jiujiang is situated midway along the Beijing-Kowloon railway line, and has a very good geographical location.
Jiujiang's future is unbounded. "
He also embossed the name for the Jiujiang Station.
Jiujiang is the thoroughfare connecting Yangtze River's north and south.
However, the annual flood season has been having a certain impact on both the local economy's development and the life of the common people, especially for the lower reaches of the Longkai River at Jiujiang City, which lies along the urban hub, where the current flows through the city area before entering the Yangtze River.
As a result, when the flood season comes, the rising waters of the Yangtze River invade inland, and has made the lower reaches of the Longkai River an intense battlefield over the years against flooding.
To this end, the provincial government incorporated " the Longkai River administration and development project " into the provincial major flood prevention projects.
Upon learning of this, Xiang Wang immediately asked experts to make investigations.
He said that this was a project which would benefit future generations and also the most urgent matter the government will undertake.
I felt obliged to do my part.
Xiang Wang spared no efforts in investing 120 million yuan in the construction of the flood prevention project.
Amidst this year's flood prevention, this project has shown significant effectiveness.
At present, Xiang Wang has also started the construction of Jiulong Street.
At the same time, in order to improve of Jiujiang's investment environment, Xiang Wang decided to invest several hundred million yuan in Jiujiang City to develop and construct the " Boundless World Fun Fair " to go with the world famous mountain, Lu Mountain.
Xiang Wang invests in the construction of national infrastructure, which is beneficial to the country, to the people and to himself.
The local government, in order to encourage investors, has handed the Jiujiang Railway Station yard, and part of the re-landscaped Longkai River region that Xiang Wang invested in the construction of, over to Xiang Wang to administer and development.
Some people predict that, with the further opening up and development of Jiujiang, Xiang Wang will be able to earn considerable profits from the land allocated to him by the government.
The Minsheng Group, created by Xiang Wang, is the earliest collective enterprise jointly invested and established in Jiangxi Province by Taiwanese, overseas Chinese, etc.
It is in its 11th year of operation to date and has 22 subsidiaries.
With an ever-increasing enterprise scope, it has already developed from a realm of circulation to the involvement in multiple industries and fields such as production, new high level technology, real estate, architecture and investment in the construction of large-scale infrastructure, etc.
-LRB-End-RRB-