The China's handicapped sports cause has undergone the several stages of conceptualization, growth and expansion, and is currently rising.
The holding of the 6th Far East and South Pacific Disabled Games will provide more impetus for this trend.
Each development step of handicapped sports can not be separated from the concern and support of the Party and the government.
At the beginning of the establishment of the People's Republic of China, social welfare services and schools for blind children and deaf people were established successively everywhere.
Welfare factories developed activities such as broadcast exercises, etc. and schools established physical education.
As a part of the cause for the disabled, disabled sports began to grow.
Every year, the nation allocates special funds to be used in developing handicapped sports activities.
Nationwide handicapped sports games began to be held in the late 1950's.
The games accelerated improvement and drove popularization.
The handicapped sports cause has gradually grown.
Since the reform and opening up, the Chinese economy has developed rapidly.
This enabled more people to put money and material resource into the disabled sports cause.
In the short 10 years, the cause has achieved success of attention from China and abroad.
It is reasonable to believe that the disabled cause will be increasingly recognized and supported as China's overall national strength escalates.
The handicapped sports cause will also have broad development.
The establishment and healthiness of disabled sports organizations provide organizational assurance for the development of the sports cause for handicapped people.
The Chinese Injured and Disabled People Sports Association-LRB-renamed to the Chinese Disabled Sports Association in 1990-RRB-was established in October, 1983.
After this a succession of handicapped sports organizations were established throughout China.
In 1985, the Chinese Mentally Impaired and Blind Sports Associations were also established.
Having organization and leadership, activities such as the games and competitions, etc. were increasingly and frequently held.
The enthusiasm of handicapped people participating in the sports activities was unprecedentedly increasing, sports levels continually improve and the reserve force is growing.
Three National Disabled Games were held respectively in Hefei, Tangshan and Guangzhou.
The scale became larger and larger and the level became higher and higher.
The games have received more broad attention and support of the public, and have attracted more disabled people to take part in the events.
Since 1984 the Chinese Disabled Sports Association has become a member of 8 international disabled sports organizations successively, such as the International Para Olympic Committee, etc. and has established relations with disabled sports organizations in various countries and areas and taken part in international events such as the Special Olympic Games, etc.
In competitions and contacts, disabled Chinese people have revealed extraordinary physical abilities, achieved excellent results, enhanced friendship with disabled people from various countries and areas and contributed to the development of physical activities for disabled people around the world.
" The Guaranteed Law for Disabled Persons in the People's Republic of China ", which was drafted and implemented in 1991, stipulates to organize and support disabled people to develop mass sports activities, to hold special games and to participate in important international competitions and communication.
The guarantee of the law has and will continue to boost the vigorous development of the sports cause for China's disabled.
Holding the 6th Asia-Pacific Special Olympic Games in Beijing will motivate all of society to better understand and support disabled sports.
It will make the public more conscious of helping disabled people and encourage more disabled people to take part in physical activities.
It will, therefore, greatly assist in the development of the sports cause for China's disabled.
Truly, the foundation of disabled sports in China is not very strong, popularization is not yet widespread, and compared with some developed countries, still has a large gap.
However, the " impact " of the Far South Games foreshadows a bright future for this civilized and progressive cause.
-LRB-End-RRB-