Xinhua News Agency, Zhengzhou, April 18, by wire-LRB-reporters Xianwen Guo and Geng Wang
The second construction phase of the Anyang Color Kinescope Glass-Shell Co., Ltd., designed and built using Chinese initiative, and meeting current world-wide advanced technological levels, today finished construction and started operations.
The Vice Premier of the State Council, Jiahua Zou, attended the ribbon cutting ceremony held today for the start of operations.
According to the introduction, the completion of construction and startup of operations of Anbo's second project phase enabled Anbo Co.'s yearly production capacity of colored glass-shells to expand from the six million cases of the first phase up to eleven million cases, turning it into China's largest production base for colored glass-shells in terms of current scale of production.
After the start of operations, it was then able to produce the complete set of color kinescope glass-shells for color TVs and was also able to produce the complete set of color kinescope glass-shells for computer monitors.
The specifications go from 35 cm straight up to 84 cm.
It simultaneously laid a foundation for the next step of independently developing and producing high clarity glass-shells and wide-screen color TV glass-shells.
The Anbo company is a key project in China's nationalization of the production of color TVs, which China built up during the " seventh five-year plan " period-LRB-1986-1990-RRB-with wholesale introduction of foreign advanced technology and implementation of general technological contracts from outside.
Since it started production in 1991, altogether it has completed close to 1,000 technological improvements and development projects and has independently developed more than 20 new products and new types of products, including large-screen color TV glass-shells.
Yearly output exceeded designed capability by 78 %, last year already attaining 7.12 million cases.
The share of the domestic market of the products and the percent coverage of the kinds of products reached 70 % and 90 %, respectively.
At the same time it resold to Japan and exported to countries like Korea and India.
Since starting production, cumulatively it has realized composite economic benefits of 1.06 billion yuan and earned 48.56 million US dollars through exports and remittances, which is enough to recoup the total fixed investment of the first project phase.
To accelerate the establishment and development of the colored glass industry of China's nationalities, the people of Anbo, in the construction of the second project phase, boldly adopted the completely new ways of thinking of " being one's own master, widely adopting the strong points of the people, having a unique style, individually creating a system " and of " general contracting one's own skills, from a high starting point optimizing the two types of resources, international and domestic " and attained the approval of the leadership of the State Council and the vigorous support of the relevant national departments.
They worked many wonders that attracted the widespread attention of those in the same business inside and outside the country.
Number one was the fact that it took only thirteen months from November 18, 1994, when ground was broken and construction started, up until the drill-furnace fire lighting was successful.
Compared to Anbo's first phase the time period for the project was shortened by eighteen months, and compared to the fastest construction globally for comparable projects, it still was 5 months in advance.
Two was bringing about the optimum combination of resources such as domestic and foreign trained personnel, skills, equipment, design and construction, etc.
No matter what the hardware deployment or the software usage, everything met the current advanced standards for its industry internationally.
Three, compared with a wholesale introduction of foreign techniques and equipment, investment was greatly economized.
According to measurements and calculations, the actual investment in Anbo's second project phase only amounted to one-half of what the total investment would be for a comparable project that at present domestically would be built using a wholesale introduction of foreign techniques and equipment.
-LRB-End-RRB-