The development of Shanghai's Pudong is in step with the establishment of its legal system
Xinhua News Agency, Shanghai, February 10, by wire-LRB-reporters Jinhu Xie and Chijian Zhang-RRB-
In recent years Shanghai's Pudong has promulgated and implemented 71 regulatory documents relating to areas such as economics, trade, construction, planning, science and technology, culture and education, etc., ensuring the orderly advancement of Pudong's development.
Pudong's development and opening up is a century-spanning undertaking for vigorously promoting Shanghai and constructing a modern economic, trade, and financial center.
Because of this, new situations and new questions that have not been encountered before are emerging in great numbers.
In response to this, Pudong is not simply adopting an approach of " work for a short time and then draw up laws and regulations only after waiting until experience has been accumulated. "
Instead, Pudong is taking advantage of the lessons from experience of developed countries and special regions such as Shenzhen by hiring appropriate domestic and foreign specialists and scholars, by actively and promptly formulating and issuing regulatory documents, and by ensuring that these economic activities are incorporated into the sphere of influence of the legal system as soon as they appear.
Precisely because as soon as it opened it was relatively standardized, China's first drug purchase service center for medical treatment institutions, which came into being at the beginning of last year in the Pudong new region, in operating up to now, has concluded transactions for drugs of over 100 million yuan and has n't had one case of kickback.
Construction is a principal economic activity in developing Pudong.
These years there have been several hundred construction companies and over four thousand construction sites that have spread out all over this stretch of hot turf.
In order to standardize construction procedures and to guard against the emergence of disorderly phenomena, the new region's management committee promptly announced a series of documents for standardizing the construction market in accordance with the relevant national regulations and the regulations of Shanghai Municipality, while accommodating the realities of Pudong's development.
The documents include : management methods for bidding on construction projects ; a certain number of regulations for demolition and removal work ; implementation methods for fixing construction that violated regulations ; construction suggestions for communications installations and cable setups ; provisional methods for environmental management at construction work sites ; etc.
Essentially they are worked out to the point where every single link has clearly defined and specific regulations.
When a construction company enters the region, first the appropriate bureau delivers these regulatory documents, and afterwards there is a specialized contingent that carries out a supervisory inspection.
In spite of the fact that of the regulatory documents that the Pudong new region has formulated, some are relatively " crude " and some are still only provisional regulations awaiting step-by-step completion as they are put into practice, nevertheless, this kind of approach, with the legal system tightly coupled with economic and social activities, has received positive comments from domestic and foreign investors.
They believe that in coming to the Pudong new region to invest there is methodicalness and attention to rules in the handling of business, and interests can receive safeguards.
-LRB-End-RRB-