Xinhua News Agency, Shenyang, January 19th, by reporter Jianzhen Dong
In Liaoning, the old industrial base of China, 21.8 yuan of every 100 yuan of fixed assets investment is utilized from foreign capital.
Fixed assets investments utilizing foreign capital have accounted for more than 15 of this province's total fixed asset investments.
This is what Guozhu Gao, provincial vice-governor of Liaoning province, mentioned at the provincial foreign investment utilization work conference held recently.
During the six years from 1992 to 1997, foreign investments actually transferred in have approached 13 billion US dollars, accounting for 21.8 % of the total fixed asset investments in the same period.
Guozhu Gao said : " For Liaoning, an old industrial base, which is implementing large-scale transformation of the old industrial base, but is also poorly-funded, utilizing foreign investment has become one of the main driving forces in economic development. "
During the six years, nearly 6000 foreign-invested enterprises have gone into operation and production in Liaoning, and have accumulatively actualized a production value of nearly 270 billion yuan.
In 1997, the annual production value of foreign-invested enterprises broke through 60 billion yuan, the proportion of annual production values of foreign-invested enterprises in provincial industrial production value has increased from 5 % in 1992 to 17 %.
Utilizing foreign investment vigorously propelled Liaoning's economic development, and promoted social stability.
Guozhu Gao mentioned that, in 1997, tax revenues from foreign-invested enterprises in Liaoning reached 3 billion yuan, and the proportion accounting for provincial industrial and commercial tax revenues has risen from 3 % in 1992 to more than 10 %.
Out of the operating foreign-invested enterprises in Liaoning, the number of directly placed employees has reached more than 600,000, and has become one of the important channels in solving the employment problem.
The areas in which Liaoning utilizes foreign investment have been expanded from medium and small-sized processing projects to the four pillar industries for old industrial base transformation purposes : the petrochemical industry, the metallurgical industry, the mechanical industry, the electronic industry, etc. and such industries as agriculture, real estate, infrastructure, energy, finance, etc.
Guozhu Gao said : " Co-operative areas between foreign companies and Liaoning are still expanding constantly. "
Methods of utilizing foreign investment have shown a trend of diversified development.
Guozhu Gao mentioned that, the Shenyang-Dalian Highway Company, Ltd., co-operated with foreign investment, with a total investment of 4.9 billion yuan, has been approved by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation.
China's largest iron and steel company, the Anshan Iron and Steel Corporation, has been listed in Hong Kong for H-share transactions.
The Dalian Wadian Group, has been listed for issuing B-shares, and has raised funds of 390 million US dollars.
Liaoning is actively adopting new measures of utilizing foreign investment, such as developing the listing of new shares, property rights transfer, assets leases, etc.
-LRB-End-RRB-