Xinhua News Agency, Beijing, December 25, by wire-LRB-reporter Rongdian Zhang-RRB-
The EU Committee passed the " The EU's New Strategy Towards China " in November of last year, emphasizing the totality, independence and long term natue of the EU's policy towards China, and expressing that it would further promote bilateral exchange and co-operation in the fields of economy and trade, science and technology, development aid, etc.
Recently, when this reporter was here interviewing ambassador Genshen Wei, head of the EU's European Committee's delegation in China, asking him to evaluate the past year's bilateral results of co-operation, he said without hesitation : " In 1997, the EU and China made marked progress in the political relationship, trade relationship, and in co-operation in aspects such as investment, etc. "
The facts this ambassador cited to support his conclusion are convincing : in the past year, the EU and China have had more frequent, high-ranking exchange visits than ever ; in international affairs, the EU and China have carried out very good co-operation.
For instance, China has played a very active role in the course of the Euro-Asia Conference.
The leaders of the EU countries are looking forward to meeting with Chinese leaders at the second Euro-Asia Conference to be held in London in April next year.
On the issue of China's entering the World Trade Organization, the EU and China have conducted frequent and positive talks, and have made great progress.
During a visit to China in October of this year, Sir Britan, vice chairman of the EU Committee also conducted highly productive talks with Yi Wu, minister of China's Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economy, on the issue of China's entering the WTO.
Both parties have reached agreement upon some matters of principle.
At present, the negotiations between the EU and China regarding China's entering the WTO have entered an important stage, and both parties are actively conducting talks on this matter.
Trade between Europe-LRB-the EU-RRB-and China is increasing, and the EU's actual investment in China is also maintaining growing momentum.
The EU committee recently decided to propose to the EU Council of Ministers to exclude China from the past " non-market economy countries " list.
This shows that the EU has realized that China's economy is developing towards a market economy.
The EU is still one of the best suppliers providing China with high level technology.
In 1997, assistance funds provided by EU co-operation projects with China exceeded 65 million ECU-LRB-1 ECU approximately equals 1.2 US dollars-RRB-, being triple that of 1994.
The ambassador told this reporter that currently there are 30 co-operation projects in progress between the EU and China, and both parties have also signed agreements on many new projects.
He revealed that funds planned to be provided by the EU for co-operation projects with China in 1998 will maintain this year's levels.
Referring to coming years ' prospects of the relationship between Europe-LRB-the EU-RRB-and China, ambassador Genshen Wei said that in 1998 many European high-ranking officials will visit China.
He predicts that in the next year, the political relationship between Europe-LRB-the EU-RRB-and China will be further strengthened, trade and investment will continue to grow, and further progress will be made in bilateral negotiations regarding China entering the WTO.
-LRB-End-RRB-