Xinhua News Agency, Jinan, September 2nd, by reporter Baixin Zhang
Laiwu City of Shandong Province has established a cell structure cultivation center inside the agricultural new high level technology development and model zones, to introduce and tame improved breeds of nurseries, flowers and vegetables from home and abroad.
In the past two years, more than 50 new breeds such as melons, vegetables, flowers and fruit trees, etc. have successively been introduced from countries such as US and Japan, etc. and has bred 3.5 million improved nurseries.
According to understanding, currently Shandong has established ten agricultural new high level technology development and model zones similar to that of Laiwu City.
A government official of Shandong Province told this reporter that this province established agricultural new high level technology development and model zones beginning in 1992, whose main purpose is to accelerate the transformation of agricultural new high level technology achievements through introducing agricultural new high level technologies from home and abroad to carry out development in order to provide effective models for agricultural production and rural economy development to promote the transformation of traditional agriculture into modern agriculture.
Currently, ten agricultural new high level technology development and model zones have designated 180,000 mu of land to become the central model zone.
To accelerate construction of the model zones, Shandong Province has totally invested capital of more than 62 million yuan, with a construction area reaching 218,000 square meters.
The model zones have basically implemented the four conveniences of water, electricity, roads and telecommunications.
In the agricultural new high level technology development and model zone of Zibo City in the Zhangdian District, plan to establish a agricultural scientific research training institute, a breeding area for improved agricultural varieties, an organic vegetable area, a quality orchard, the fine stock breeding farm, etc.
Not only are some of the most advanced domestic agricultural technologies here, but also new varieties introduced from foreign countries.
In the past two years, the ten agricultural new high level technology development and model zones have promoted more than a hundred new agricultural varieties, developed 23 new high level technology projects entering the zone, and reaped better economic benefits and social benefits.
The Weihai agricultural new high level technology development and model zone introduced a new potato variety, and after cultivation and breeding, has provided 50,000 kg of potatoes to society this year.
They have also bred 200,000 toxin-free fruit tree nurseries.
New high level technology development and model zones have become Shandong's agricultural " model gardens ".
Many peasants often come here to learn techniques and purchase quality varieties.
The modeling and leading effects of the model zones have become larger and larger.
Laiwu City has established a detoxification production base to carry out nursery detoxification on traditional products such as shallot, ginger and garlic, and after detoxification, the output of shallot, ginger and garlic has increased more than doubled.
-LRB-End-RRB-