Xinhua News Agency, Beijing, March 6, by wire
The State Council formally submitted a proposal to establish the Chongqing directly governed municipality to the 5th session of the Eighth National People's Congress.
Chongqing is one of the largest cities in China with a long history of more than 3,000 years.
In China's southwestern region and the upper reaches of the Yangtze River, it is the largest municipal economic center and an important communications hub.
As early as the Period from the Shang Dynasty to the Warring States, Chongqing was the capital of the Ba State, from the Qin Dynasty to the Eastern Han Dynasty it became Ba County, in the Sui and Tang Dynasties it was the Yu State, and in the Song Dynasty became Chongqing Fu-LRB-and up to now has a history of more than 800 years-RRB-.
Chongqing was opened up as a commerce port in 1891, and was formally established as a city in 1929.
After the Japanese Resistance War broke out, the Nationalist government moved westward to Chongqing in 1937, and coastal industrial enterprises also successively moved inward.
It was the " support capital " of the Nationalist government in 1940, and the center of China's politics, economy, commerce and trade, finance, communications, culture and diplomatic activities at that time.
In the initial period of the country's founding, Chongqing was the seat of the Southwestern Bureau and the Southwestern Military and Political Committee of the Central Committee of the CCP and a municipality directly under the Central Committee.
In 1954, it was changed to a regional level city under Sichuan Province's jurisdiction.
From 1954 to 1958, the State implemented a separate classification planning system for it.
In the mid '60s, Chongqing was the key investment district of third-line construction of China, becoming the nation's important industrial base.
In February of 1983, the Central Committee of the CCP and the State Council decided to put Chongqing in the first group of experimental cities of economic structural reform and cities implementing a separate classification planning system, to grant provincial-level economic management authority, and to open it up as a foreign trade port.
Chongqing is situated in the southeastern region of the Sichuan basin, being 208 kilometers wide from east to west and 220 kilometers long from north to south.
Its downtown is situated on the hill slopes of the intersection of the Yangtze River and the Jialing River.
The municipal area is 23,114 square kilometers, occupying 4 % of the total area of Sichuan Province, within which the downtown area is 1,534 square kilometers.
It currently has jurisdiction over 11 districts and 10 counties-LRB-municipalities-RRB-.
At the end of 1995, the total population was 15.2 million.
According to the proposal put forward by the State Council, after setting up the Chongqing directly governed municipality, the administrative regions under the jurisdiction of Wanxian, Fuling and the Qianjiang Region will be put under the jurisdiction of Chongqing municipality.
The total area will reach 82,000 square kilometers and the total population will be 30.02 million.
Since the 3rd session of the 11th meeting of the CCP, Chongqing's domestic economy and social tasks have developed rapidly.
Gross domestic output values reached 73 billion yuan in 1995, increasing by 4 times compared with 1978, before the reform and opening up.
The average living expenses and income of city and township residents reached 4053 yuan, and the average pure income of peasants reached 1554 yuan.
The total industrial and agricultural output value was 144 billion yuan, among which the former was 120.1 billion yuan.
Third industry output values reached 24.7 billion yuan, accounting for 33 % of the gross domestic output value.
Chongqing City currently has more than 2.1 million various commercial organizations, and nearly 300 financial institutions of various kinds.
It has established economic and trade relations with 110 countries and regions of the world, and annual import and export foreign trade volumes are 15 billion US dollars.
It has currently approved more than 1500 projects which utilize foreign capital and there are 1575 three-capital enterprises that are actually using 1.7 billion US dollars in foreign capital.
There are 1575 triple-capital enterprises.
The three railroads Chengyu, Chuanqing, and Xiangyu, and 11 highways meet in Chongqing.
The Chengyu expressway has been completed and is open for traffic.
Chongqing's port's handling capacity has reached 630,000 tons, and Chongqing's airport has opened more than 30 domestic lines and has charter flights going directly to Hong Kong and Nagoya.
Boeing 747 airplanes can land at the recently built Jiangbei Airport.
Chongqing's dominance of qualified scientists and technicians is relatively prominent in China's western region.
Currently there are 340 technological research institutions of various types, 23 universities and colleges, and more than 350,000 qualified scientists and technicians of various types.
If the proposal for setting up the Chongqing directly governed municipality is passed, Chongqing will become the fourth directly governed municipality successively established in China after Beijing, Shanghai and Tianjin.
-LRB-End-RRB-