This paper, Washington, February, 13th, by wire Reporter Qixin Zhang reporting :
Before the traditional festival of the Chinese New Year, Qizhen Zhu, the Chinese ambassador to the US, gave a video-recorded speech to overseas Chinese and Chinese people in the US, wishing them a happy New Year.
In his speech, Ambassador Zhu presented to the overseas Chinese and Chinese people in the US that, during the past year, China has maintained the policy of reform and opening up, and adhered to the socialist road, having made new achievements in the economy and has further enhanced the political stability and the social stability of the whole country.
When talking about China's independent, autonomous foreign policy of peace and relations between China and the US, Ambassador Zhu said, in the past year, Sino-American relations have gradually recovered and improved.
The two countries share common or similar opinions on some international issues.
However, the US government's sanctions toward China to date still have not been totally lifted, and Sino-American relations have still not fully returned to normal.
He said that China and the US maintaining friendship conforms to the two countries ' people's interests and also benefits the peace and stability of the Asia Pacific region and even the world.
The so-called sanctions on China imposed by the US government should be lifted as early as possible, and a normal contacts between the two countries should be resumed as soon as possible.
Relations between the two countries should develop healthily by strictly abiding by principles specified in the three joint communiques between China and the US.
Qizhen Zhu said that the Chinese people are full of confidence in following along the road they chose, and steadily marching forward, gradually realizing the already determined second and third development strategic objectives, and striving to realize the peaceful unity of the motherland as early as possible.
He hoped that overseas Chinese and Chinese people in the US will continue to make more aspiring efforts in accelerating economic development and unity of the country.