Xinhua News Agency, Beijing April 23rd
Today in Zhongnanhai, General Secretary of the Communist Party of China, President of the country and honorary President of China's Red Cross, Zemin Jiang met with representatives of the 6th National Member Congress of China's Red Cross, and expressed warm greetings to the 20 million hardworking members on behalf of the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party and State Council.
Zemin Jiang said, the China's Red Cross is an international social aid organization engaged in humanitarian works, and for the past ninety years has done lots of good works for the people and made a lot of contributions to the development of the country, in accordance to the basic principles of the Red Cross and Red Crescent movement.
It has won the respect and support of the masses through real action.
Zemin Jiang said, Red Cross work is honorable social work and has positive accelerative effects on the building up of socialist material civilization and spiritual culture.
Since the reform and opening-up, the Chinese Red Cross has launched effective humanitarian works in accordance to new implementation demands.
It has produced broad, beneficial influences on society, creating a new road of Red Cross development with Chinese characteristics.
Vice President Yiren Rong, Qicheng Qian, Peiyun Peng, Zhengying Qian, etc. attended the meeting.
State Council Premier Peng Li, who is on an overseas visit, sent a congratulatory letter to the meeting.
In his congratulatory letter Peng Li said, the Chinese Red Cross was a very important humanitarian organization
In the past 90 years, especially since the formation of the new China, it has demonstrated important effects in the communications between the Chinese people and the people of the world.
He hoped that the work of the Chinese Red Cross would flourish and develop further.
He hoped that society as a whole and all levels of government would express concern and support this honorable work.
Zemin Jiang, Peng Li, Shi Qiao, Huaqing Liu, etc. also wrote words of appreciation for the 90th anniversary of the formation of the Chinese Red Cross and the concurrent 6th National Congress.
-LRB-End-RRB-