Xinhua News Agency, Beijing, December 26th
This year, the economies of the five large special economic zones, namely, Shenzhen, Zhuhai, Shantou, Xiamen and Hainan, have maintained strong growth momentum.
The annual GDP of the Shenzhen Special Zone this year could reach 113 billion yuan, increasing by 16 % over last year.
The financial revenue within the local budget is 14 billion yuan, increasing by 6.3 %.
This year, annual foreign capital actually utilized by Shenzhen is estimated to possibly reach 2.8 billion US dollars, increasing by 15.6 %.
Following Hong Kong's return, the economic and trade relationship between Hong Kong and Shenzhen has been strengthened, and the projects of joining the three large infrastructures, such as Hong Kong's western channel, are now progressing smoothly.
The Shenzhen Special Zone this year has been promoting the state-owned enterprise reform and the results are remarkable.
The whole city's gross industrial production value for this year is estimated to reach 125.5 billion yuan, increasing by 17.5 % over last year.
A three dimensional traffic frame in Zhuhai has preliminarily taken shape and the investment environment improves daily.
A number of consortia, such as Mobil, Exxon, Amoco of the US, Shell of Holland, Yan Gu of Japan and Cheung Kong Industries Limited of Hong Kong, etc. have one after another come and settled in Zhuhai.
According to statistics, in the first 11 months of this year, Zhuhai's recently authorized contracts for utilizing foreign capital numbered 301.
The contracted investment value was 2.46 billion US dollars, and the actually utilized foreign funds 889 million US dollars, increasing by 11.9 % over the same period last year.
The establishment and perfection of a modern system of sea, land and air traffic makes the geographic advantages of the Shantou Special Zone more obvious daily.
By the end of this year, the overall annual throughput capacity of the docks and ports of the whole city will reach 21.12 million tons.
Shantou airport has opened 44 international and domestic air routes.
The total capacity of program-controlled telephones has reached more than 770,000 sets and one in every ten people has a mobile phone on average.
Currently, Shantou City has totally authorized more than 12,000 contracts for utilizing foreign funds, and the foreign capital actually utilized is more than 5.1 billion US dollars.
In the first three-quarters of this year, in the whole city, there were 184 projects recently signed in which foreign businessmen invested directly, and the foreign capital actually utilized was 716 million US dollars.
The whole city's gross export value was 3.032 billion US dollars, increasing by 84.3 % over the same period last year.
The gross import value was 2.180 billion US dollars, increasing by 30.2 % over the same period last year.
After Xiamen became the first experimental port of direct shipping across the Straits this year, large shipping and service companies of Taiwan such as Lirong, Wanhai, etc. successively started regular trips to Xiamen.
Currently, Xiamen possesses five international container shipping arteries such as to Japan, Singapore, Korea, the US, the Mediterranean, etc.
From January to October this year, Xiamen's total import and export value was 6.41 billion US dollars, increasing by 13.6 %, including exports and imports which were separately 3.52 billion US dollars and 2.89 billion US dollars, increasing by 13.6 %.
It is predicted that the annual total foreign trade import and export value will be 7.7 billion US dollars, increasing by 16 %.
In the first 10 months of this year, Xiamen's state-owned enterprise's export value was 1.637 billion US dollars, increasing by 23.6 % over the same period last year.
Hainan Special Zone's economy this year is estimated to have an annual economic growth rate reaching 6.7 %, increasing by 1.9 % over last year.
This year, it is estimated that totally achieved sales output in the industries at and above the township level in the whole province will be 23 billion yuan, increasing by 16 % over last year.
Agriculture has gained further development.
The output of grains, fruits, melons, vegetables and rubber gum has all reached or exceeded historical best levels.
The total number of tourists coming to Hainan in the whole year has reached 7.9 million people, and the tourism revenue is 5.5 billion yuan, increasing by 10.29 % over last year.
-LRB-End-RRB-