Xinhua News Agency, Fuzhou, March 4th, by reporter Ting Xu
Fujian Province, located in southeast China's coastal area, has tasted the benefits in recent years of the vigorous development of new high level technology industry.
Some experts believe that this foretells the transformation of industrial structure of this province from a low level, extensive type to a new high level technology dominance.
According to the Fujian " revival through science and education " strategy and the program of constructing high-tech industry belts on the western side of the Straits, by 2000, the structural pattern of industry being led by new high level technology will basically be formed in this area.
The overall level of industrialization of new high level technology will stride into nationally advanced ranks.
Its new high level technology industry will achieve output of 60 billion yuan, accounting for 16 % of the total local industry output, with exports accounting for more than 10 % of that of the whole province.
Last year, Fujian province's output of new high level technology industry reached 30 billion yuan, and its sales revenue was 49.6 billion yuan.
Experts expressed that developing new high level technology industry in Fujian will not only accelerate updating, upgrading and internationalization of local industry, but also make it possible for the area to finally become the best place for cooperation in science and technology, and economy and trade on both sides of the straits.
Beside the wide road of the national-level Fuzhou high level science and technology zone, the Zhonghua Imaging Company from Taiwan has undertaken constructing a factory building occupying tens of mu of land, and is preparing to produce monochrome image tubes through high level scientific and technological measures.
It is said that the project, whose investment is 3 billion yuan, has now entered a restructuring stage, and after full completion, its annual output could reach 7 billion yuan.
According to presentations of local officials, apart from the Fuzhou high level science and technology zone, currently, Fujian province possesses another national-level zone in the southern Xiamen SEC.
Additionally, five provincial-level high-tech industry development zones have been established in such places as Quanzhou, Putian, Zhangzhou, etc.
Last year, formally recognized as qualified new high level technology enterprises in these high science and technology zones reached 150.
The above-mentioned development zones are basically located in the southeastern area of Fujian whose economy is the most active.
Enterprises within the zones focus their attention mainly on fields with certain scientific research strength, such as photoelectrons, computers, new material, bioengineering, etc.
In the past few years, scientific and technological achievements that have come out of researching, manufacturing and developing have mainly been new crystalline material, digital color TV with picture-in-picture function, UPS series products, bank POS systems, nationwide computer-controlled cement composite bag bagging machines, medium voltage switches, etc.
These products have already been identified by experts as high-tech products at either the international or national advanced levels.
Certain new high level technology enterprises, such as Fujian Hitachi Company, Ltd., Xiahua Electronics Company, Ltd., Fujian Shida Public Computer Company, Ltd. and Fujian Computer Peripheral Devices Factory, have already ascended to the ranks of the top 100 high level science and technology enterprises of China.
Fujian Province is one of the four regions in which the Chinese government decided to accelerate development in the '90s and make efforts in basically realizing modernization in 20 years.
At the same time, it is a key region where China strives to strengthen development stamina by developing new high level technology.
In the past seventeen years, Fujian Province, through developing its export-oriented economy, has made itself another economically prosperous region between the Zhujiang Delta and the Yangtze Delta.
People in economic circles here believe that, as the famous hometown of overseas Chinese which has maintained good long-term economic and trade relations and market connections with the regions of Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan, and draws from such advantageous conditions as financing, information transmission, industry conversion, etc., Fujian will have great prospects of developing new high level technology industry.
-LRB-End-RRB-