by reporter Zhongshi Ouyang
The art of calligraphy is a special kind of art form in China.
Each period has its own superior achievements, which combine to make a brilliant and glorious calligraphy history.
This is exactly why the Chinese art of calligraphy wins the strong admiration of friends from many countries of the world.
American friends Mr. Sackler and his wife, have wholeheartedly contributed a lot to carrying forward our art of calligraphy, and hope to introduce this brilliant art to the world, to let more friends learn and treasure it.
We appreciate their absolute sincerity.
The first recently held " Sackler Cup Calligraphy Competition " selected, recommended and widely solicited calligraphy works and treasures of recently budding calligraphers scattered in various places, and has been deeply welcomed by readers.
In the appraisal and selection process, the standards we emphasized were : conforming to classical requirements of the Chinese art of calligraphy ; healthy language diction, readable handwriting ; certain standards of writing methods ; solid skills, and self-establishing a new artistic concept--these are the characteristics of our Chinese art of calligraphy, and because we have these characteristics, we won the attention of foreign friends.
Therefore, any work that can follow tradition but not stagnate, and have new artistic concepts will be appraised well.
In a serious yet harmonious discussion, the judges thinking achieved unity and decided this round's outstanding entries.
One kind of situation embarrassed the judges, namely, that some works displayed really beautifully written characters, conformed to a certain calligraphy style, and showed signs of new achievement in art form, but regretfully, because the calligraphers have poor basic knowledge, they wrote some wrong characters, and since there was no remedy, finally lost in the selection.
Everyone both felt pity for them, and felt that this is an issue very worth worrying about.
Some young calligraphy lovers, just at the time when they should have been studying hard, were hindered.
So basic knowledge was not enough, structure was not systematic, and the level was rather low.
They have some ability in calligraphy, but eventually can not produce a final masterpiece at a higher level, and can not create works which may be used as teaching models.
We sincerely hope that these friends will amend this aspect quickly, and hope future works will show both superior capability in calligraphy, and convey healthy and deep thoughts, and even reveal a clear, meaningful and elegant mind.
This is the eager expectation that many older-generation calligraphers have placed on us younger-generation.