Xinhua News Agency, Lhasa, February 2,-LRB-reporter Zhen Yang-RRB--
During the " eighth five-year plan " period-LRB-from 1991 to 1995-RRB-, the reform in Tibet's financial system, adhering to the principles of being consistent with the national framework and being connected to the system, successfully completed the work of setting up branches for all levels of the People's Bank in Tibet, and brought about a change in the use of credit funds from an extensive management style to an intensive management style.
Last year for the first time, all kinds of savings in the entire region broke through the level of two billion yuan in terms of annual net increase.
According to the introduction given by Suolangdaji, the president of the Tibet Autonomous Region branch of the People's Bank of China, during the " eighth five-year plan " period, the Tibet Autonomous Region branch bank has taken the lead in the entire country to abolish the county branch of the People's Bank of China.
Last year, on July 1st, the Tibet Autonomous Region branch of the Agricultural Bank of China was officially listed and went into operation, realizing a financial system that is structurally in line with the entire country.
The reform in the foreign exchange system has been linked to the entire country.
A system for settlements and sales, as well as a new sales verification system were fully implemented in Tibet, effectively preventing the outflow and loss of foreign exchange.
Last year, the increase in all kinds of savings and loans in the entire region far exceeded the speed of economic development and it met the requirements set forth at the financial work meeting held at the beginning of the year.
Tibet's banking sector is actively adjusting its credit structure to ensure the participation of key industries such as agricultural and livestock production, etc., as well as to increase the amount of the usual supply of capital funding for the development of industries, energy, transportation and communications, etc.
Last year, the newly increased loan was 1.441 billion yuan, an increase of more than 800 million yuan compared to the previous year.
The loans-LRB-including aid-the-poor loan-RRB-for agricultural and livestock production newly increased by 438 million yuan compared to the previous year.
The amount of increase of township enterprise loans was 61.83 %.
By the end of last year, the balance of all kinds of saving deposits in the entire region reached 7.163 billion yuan, an increase of 41.78 % over the same period in the preceding year.
In this, the savings and deposits of of town and country residents was 1.937 billion yuan, an increase of 48.2 % over the same period in the previous year.
During the " eighth five-year plan " period, all kinds of savings increased by five billion yuan net, compared to at the end of the " seventh five-year plan " period-LRB-1986 to 1990-RRB-, an average increase of 27.49 % per annum.
Within the newly increased savings and deposits, fixed-period deposits accounted for 72.15 %.
The increase in withdrawing currency from circulation has played its role in stabilizing commodity prices in the entire region.
-LRB-End-RRB-