Xinhua News Agency, Nanning, January 9th, by reporter Zhicheng Heng
This reporter recently drove to cities such as Guangxi's Fangchenggang, Qinzhou, Beihai, Zhanjiang, etc. to gather news, and saw that with the opening and operation of the Nanning-Kunming railway, these four port cities along the coast of the Northern Gulf have docks that are anxious and busy with the loading and unloading of cargo, and along the coast, a number of new docks are speedily being constructed.
All over, a thousand sails compete in setting sail, a very lively scene.
Fangchenggang, Qinzhou, Beihai and Zhanjiang, people call the " Dragon's head " of the southwest's main passageway to the sea.
The construction of the Nanning-Kunming railway brings unprecedented opportunities for development to the four coastal cities.
The city of Fangchenggang has now developed to become one of the nation's important pivotal ports, having 20 operating docks, among which 10 have berths above the 10,000 ton level.
Railways and highways directly reach the port.
In 1997, the port completed cargo throughput of 6.5 million tons, increasing 28 % compared with the previous year.
Among this, southwest provinces and cities ' goods and materials imports and exports increased nearly once over.
At ports such as Zhanjiang, Qinzhou, and Beihai, etc. import and export goods and materials from the great southwest also grew by more than 50 % over the previous year.
Construction of the main passage has activated the flow of materials, the flow of people and the flow of information in the great southwest, and has promoted development in the coastal port cities ' economies.
In order to meet the demands of rapid growth of goods and materials imports and exports in the great southwest, the four coastal cities in the Northern Gulf have started a new upsurge of constructing ports.
The Zhanjiang Port, which was the earliest built and is large-scale, now has 31 operating berths, among which 24 are deep-water berths with a tonnage between 10,000 to 70,000 tons, and has an annual throughput reaching over 18 million tons.
At the Fangchenggang Port, the 10,000 ton level berths, No. 9 and No. 10, formally began work not long ago.
It was followed by preparing to construct larger berths, No. 11 and No. 12.
Beihai has now completed four 10,000 ton level docks and in the future another four 10,000 ton level berths will be put into reconstruction.
The Qinzhou Port, which started relatively later, actively introduces a market mechanics to promote the development of the port, organizing big consortia and big companies from home and abroad to establish merchant groups to jointly invite businesses, and introduced an ownership system for reconstructing docks.
Currently, in the port development zone, 19 proprietary ports with tonnage capacities of over 10,000 tons and 14 proprietary storage projects are either under construction or preparing for construction.
After inspections, demonstrations and under the development zone's uniform planning, proprietors from home and abroad choose their won projects, bring their own capital and sources of goods, manage their own business, and assume responsibility for profits and losses.
China's first port with proprietors as the main investment bodies will rise from here.
At the same time, the four coastal cities have also actively initiated industrial parks adjacent to the ports.
A number of traveling merchants from home and abroad, especially visionaries coming from the great southwest, have successively come to settle here to start processing industries that import large quantities and export large quantities.
The prospects are extremely good.