According to Xinhua News Agency, Nanjing, January 5th, by reporter Yanzhen Jie and correspondent Zhuqing Huang
The symposium to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Southern Anhui incident was held today in Nanjing.
The Southern Anhui Incident that happened fifty years ago was a tragedy that shocked China and foreign countries.
It was plotted deliberately by recalcitrant factions of the Nationalist Party while the Chinese race was at a dangerous point of life and death.
Comrades attending the symposium deeply expressed condolences and cherished the brave revolutionary martyrs that sacrificed themselves in the Southern Anhui Incident, passionately sang praises for the New Fourth Army for the great achievements made in the liberation of the race and the creation of a new China, practically and realistically reflected on the experience and lessons from the Southern Anhui Incident, denouncing the crimes of the creator of this tragedy.
Comrades attending the symposium pointed out that commemorating the 50th anniversary of the Southern Anhui Incident possesses important realism and meaning towards carrying on and fostering the fine traditions of the New Fourth Army, gaining historical experience, promoting Army reforms and build up.
This symposium was convened by the Nanjing Military District which was appointed by the Main Political Department of the PLA.
More than 50 veterans of the New Fourth Army participated in the symposium with leaders and comrades from the Nanjing Military District and Jiangsu province.
This paper, Jing County, January 5th, by wire, reporter Zhenguo Zhang reporting :
With the approval of the Party Central Committee, the Mausoleum of the Martyrs who died in the Southern Anhui Incident, which is built in Jing County, Anhui Province, has already completed construction.
The front of the monument in the garden was inscribed with the 12 large words " Martyrs who died in the Southern Anhui Incident will be immortal forever ", written personally by comrade Xiaoping Deng.
The two stone monuments on the west side of the mausoleum were separately inscribed : in the hand-writing of Comrade Enlai Zhou, " Greatest innocence of all times, a Ye in Jiangnan. Comrades from the same room killing each other, why the rush to mutually destruct ? " ; and the " Inscriptions for the commemorative monument of the martyrs who were sacrificed in the Southern Anhui Incident " by the Chinese Communist Party Provincial Committee and provincial government of Anhui.
The two monuments on the east side were separately inscribed with " Military songs of the New Fourth Army " and " Historical records before and after the formation of the military department of the New Fourth Army ".