Xinhua News Agency, Guiyang, December 22nd, by reporter Fang Fang
Guizhou Mao-tai Distillery, which is well-known in China and abroad, plans to implement a technology renovation project with an investment surpassing 400 million RMB to further increase the output of Mao-tai in the next three years.
In order to solve the enormous need for capital, the company is now striving to issue stock and to attempt more financing channels.
The information was revealed a few days ago by Keliang Ji, the board chairman of the Guizhou Mao-tai Distillery-LRB-Group-RRB-Company of China.
Keliang Ji said this expansion project would increase the annual output capacity of Mao-tai by 2,000 tons, reaching an output of 6,000 tons per year by 2000.
Mao-tai, which is praised as China's " national alcoholic drink ", has a very long history, and is called one of the world's three famous distilled spirits, the other two being French Cognac and the UK's Scotch whiskey.
Because the art of manufacturing Mao-tai is complicated and its production cycle is long, the output of Mao-tai is extremely limited.
The annual output only reached 1,200 tons in 1987.
In recent years, under the support of the national Ministry of Finance and the Light Industry Headquarters, the Mao-tai Distillery invested 530 million yuan RMB to successively implement a two-phase expansion and technology renovation.
Currently, it has an annual production capacity of 4,000 tons.
In 1997, this plant made over 4,400 tons of Mao-tai ; with sales income exceeding 500 million yuan RMB, and profit and taxes reaching 370 million RMB, both being the best levels in history.
Mao-tai, which is made in the Chishui river valley area in the northern part of Guizhou Province in southwest China, is known for its extremely special fermentation technique.
The water used comes from the Chishui river that flows over cinnabar quality soil and selectively uses such locally produced raw materials as sorghum, high quality wheat, etc. and is fermented during the period from the Chinese Dragon Boat Festival to the Double Ninth Festival.
After a total of 10 months fermentation, which requires adding material twice, distilling 7 times, fermenting 8 times, and braising and boiling 9 times, the spirit is then put into specially made earthen jars, sealed and stored for over three years.
Finally, it is finished by veteran brewers carefully mixing additives.
What makes Mao-tai even more famous is that first generation leaders of new China had used it to entertain distinguished guests such as former president Nixon of the US, Tanaka Kakuei, former prime minister of Japan, etc.