Xinhua News Agency, Beijing, March 13 by wire-
According to statistical data from the Customs Head Office, up to February of this year, China's foreign trade imports and exports have continued to maintain a growth trend.
The total value of imports and exports reached 36.1 billion US dollars, increasing by 13.9 % compared with the same period last year.
Of this amount, the value of exports was 17.83 billion US dollars, decreasing by 1.3 % compared with the same period last year and the value of imports was 18.27 billion US dollars, increasing by 34.1 % compared with the same period last year.
Up to February of this year, China's general trade exports have decreased noticeably, while the trade of the processing industries continued to increase steadily.
The total value of imports and exports for the processing industries trade reached 18.49 billion US dollars, increasing by 23.6 % compared to the same period last year, and accounting for 51.2 % of the total value of imports and exports.
The gross value of imports and exports from Special Economic Zones was 4.29 billion US dollars, a growth of 3.4 %.
The gross value of imports and exports from bonded areas was 490 million US dollars, increasing 1.3 times.
Import and export trade in electromechanical products continued to increase, and their proportion in total imports and exports continued to climb.
Within that, the value of exports was 5.79 billion US dollars, accounting for 32.5 % of total exports, the value of imports was 8.52 billion US dollars, accounting for 46.4 % of the total imports, and both had risen compared to the same period last year.
China's exports of major light and textile industry products, and of agricultural and sideline products decreased, however, compared to the same period of last year.
Except for very few products, such as steel, sugar and automobiles, other major import products increased across the board.
Of these, the import of primarily formed plastic was 1.1 million tons, increasing by 47.7 %, with a value of 950 million US dollars, and representing China's largest single import commodity this year.
Up to February, the gross value of imports and exports from foreign-invested enterprises was 16.59 billion US dollars.
The proportion this represented in China's gross value of imports and exports rose from 37 % for the same period last year to 45.9 %.
-LRB-End-RRB-