Bi Li, one of the coach patriarchs of the National Women's Football Team, revealed the recent " 3 step melody " of the national women's football team to journalists a few days ago in the Wuhu arena of the National Women's Football League Competition.
Bi Li said that the goal of the Chinese Women's Football Team in the Asian Games would be to " strive for champion but confirm second ".
He said there had been a number of successive retirements amongst older team members, and some leading team members were away playing football abroad, so the national team needed to recruit more new team members.
Because new team members of the recently built national team account for half, and their skill levels need to improve, the tasks facing them are formidable.
The first ongoing step is to select team members.
Based on winter training and this league match, the national team will determine 26 team members of the first group to attend the training camp.
The name list will be declared after the league matches finish.
The second step will be plateau training.
After the league matches, team members will head straight to Kunming for a month of training.
The lineup and playing methods will be determined based on training.
Some new team members ' individual skills are good, and the goal of training is to improve their knowledge of tactical cooperation and real match experience.
The national team will invite the coach of the national track and field team as well as research and development personnel to specially carry out the women team members ' physical training in order to improve team members ' cardiopulmonary capability and physical diathesis.
The third step will be to go to the US to take part in the " big four world match ".
By competing against these strong world teams from the US, Sweden and Norway, the team hopes to be better exercised, and at the same time, to understand the strengths of the strong teams of women's world football, in order to make preparation for the 2nd Women's World Cup next year.
Xinhua News Agency journalist Qinghua Guo
-LRB-End-RRB-