Xinhua News Agency, Hong Kong, December 30th, Taipei
Jiaju Hou, a Taiwan economist, published an article with the title " Three comments on ' do n't rush, be patient ' " in Taiwan's " Daily Economy " on Monday, pointing out that Taiwan authorities ' adopting a " do n't rush, be patient " restriction policy for Taiwan businessmen investing in our country's mainland would give rise to many abuses.
Jiaju Hou points out that Taiwan authorities say that " do n't rush, be patient " is to restrict large-sized Taiwan companies from going to China's mainland to invest and would have no impact on medium-and small-sized companies, but this is actually not the case.
Currently, Taiwan authorities define medium-and small-sized companies as having capital of under 60 million Taiwan dollars, but actually Taiwan's current medium-and small-sized companies mostly have significant scale.
Taking medium and small-sized companies listed last year as top ten for example, the smallest net operating revenue of these was 3.365 billion Taiwan dollars, the highest reached 10 billion Taiwan dollars.
Obviously, implementing a " do n't rush, be patient " policy will result in losing many business opportunities in our country's mainland for no reason.
Jiaju Hou believed that the " do n't rush, be patient " policy would also have influence on exports to our country's mainland.
Because, among exports from Taiwan to our country's mainland, a large portion are due to Taiwan businessmen investing in setting up factories in our country's mainland and needing to ship spare parts for machines and equipment and intermediate raw materials.
In recent years, Taiwan's trade surplus with our country's mainland has accumulatively reached 80 billion US dollars, which is almost the same as Taiwan's foreign currency reserve.
While the financial storm shows no sign of relief today, the importance of this surplus is more and more obvious.
How can Taiwan decrease exports to our country's mainland for the sake of " do n't rush, be patient " ?
Because this will reduce its trade surplus with our country's mainland.
Jiaju Hou pointed out that the " do n't rush, be patient " policy would also restrain foreign businessmen from investing in Taiwan.
Because most foreign businessmen investing in Taiwan want to take this opportunity to jointly invest in our country's mainland with Taiwan investments.
Therefore, this policy, while blocking the development of local enterprises, will also limit foreign businessmen's wishes to invest in Taiwan.
It is reported that Jiaju Hou has successively published 3 articles in Taiwan newspapers on the " do n't rush, be patient " policy, pointing out to Taiwan authorities that this erroneous mainland economic and trade policy violates the " basic philosophy of free economy ", and hopes that Taiwan authorities " are warned of the consequences ".