About the fall one you mean ?
yeah.
yeah.
trying to figure out
Well, I told him too that I 'll mention to him again on Monday
but, well of coarse Mister Oharshi is not always prompt in his answer either
but maybe Mister Furobiashi too will
Well, I was just wondering should I just pick a date and say I'm coming.
yeah,
because I think, you know, at first we were talking about that trying to work it in with the festival
but I do n't think it's going to be good because of the fact Right that we foreign teachers many of us want to go down to that Sure which is right after you know which we 'll leave like on the Friday night %uh, the third and then be down for the fourth and fifth.
mhm.
so I think probably just work it in to your general scheduling you know like you 've done before and not bother hit it on that weekend.
We-,
yeah.
okay.
Well I'm, %um,
what I was trying to figure I asked some of the students here whether they thought it was better to be there before or after the fall festival
and they said after.
uh-huh.
Do you agree ?
Yes.
Well, mainly because there are,
especially if it's just the few days before,
that's when the students finally get down to preparing for the festival
and so those days are really yeah. pretty busy.
And so after the festival %uh, they 're a lot freer
so if you could make it after that weekend.
What about, just,
I'm looking at the calendar trying to figure,
what about, say on November
say if I either come in on the ninth or you know the evening of the eighth from wherever,
I probably will already finish the other countries.
uh-huh.
Maybe make Japan the last place.
Last,
yeah.
uh-huh.
%um, come in on either the eighth or ninth, and then leave there on Saturday the eleventh.
what are those days,
do you know what those days might be like ?
Would those be good days ?
Eighth, or eighth and ninth ?
or ninth and tenth.
%uh, ninth is
yes obviously we have our special chapel that week
but that's just second period
it's just that there are no classes second period and the students have this special chapel
but you know evenings for a meeting or something would be fine.
I 'd like to meet with the parents again,
that seemed to be so well received, %uh, last time.
mhm.
%um, and we 've got of coarse some more parents.
yeah, it's
%um, and now we 're getting a few graduates going back uh-huh. that graduated this year.
yeah.
So, %uh, you know, it's the beginning of a much bigger--you would come in on the ninth then ?--group
Either that or say the late afternoon or the evening of the eighth.
okay.
We have a You know I have n't English department faculty meeting on the eighth,
but
And that goes until what time ?
Well they do n't start until five ten.
oh, okay.
Five ten till
So it would be better to come in on, like the morning of the ninth or like before noon on the ninth ?
yeah.
Or around noon or whatever.
yeah,
yeah. it would be okay.
oh.
%uh, okay.
Put down A M and then leave Saturday, %um, sometime.
uh-huh.
Whenever.
Because I 've been trying to put this together
but I did n't know how to organize it.
I really wanted to organize it
yeah
%uh, you know J C J C has been the kingpin of this %uh, group.
Now Mister Furobiashi the last time I did hear from t-,
or, no I guess it was a graduate that was just over there and came back
and she said when she talked to him that he indicated there were not many %um interested in studying in the U S because they were a not very motivated group.
yeah.
the present check at your students,
yeah.
Now the first year we have about seventeen or eighteen in the study abroad class Great In the first year,
and the first year bunch are different
I mean oh they seemed to be more motivated
so it's true that I'm not sure how many there will be in the second although there are two second year students in the class this year
mhm.
So, %uh,
but I do n't know where,
I'm not,
I have n't talked to them yet to see Now, they 're interested or just what ? what they 're thinking about.
mhm.
%um, well, you can, %uh, talk with them and see %uh whether they 're interested in studying, actually studying abroad or planning on it or anything
then we 'll know a little better uh-uh. whether I need to have two days there yeah. or I could fly in in the morning and out the next morning, or, you know, what would work best mhm. cause I do n't want to wear out my welcome
Excuse me for coughing on this.
Well, no, that's okay.
My goodness.
That was a native speaker's cough.
oh.
And, %uh, you know it's not that he ca n't.
He's got the smarts.
yeah.
He's just been a little bit unmotivated.
mhm.
%uh, June is doing much better.
yeah.
%uh, she had, %uh,
it was a hard start.
She kept falling asleep in class.
You ca n't do that in an American classroom.
mhm
yeah.
And, %uh, you know she was trying to memorize the whole book
and were saying no you 've got to use the book, you know
you 've got to use the vocabulary.
We do n't care if you memorize it.
We do n't care if you make mistakes.
mhm
You 've just got to try to use it.
She was looking for perfection.
mhm.
She's relaxing a little bit and, %um, is coming along.
Hiroki unfortunately he's, you know, minimal.
mhm.
He's doing the minimal.
But there is another Japanese girl in his class who did n't come through J C J C
she's a high school graduate mhm. and is very unmotivated, very poor attitude and is just %um, really resistant.
I'm not quite sure why she's here you know
uh-huh
and %uh Hiroki has appointed himself as her protector
oh dear.
and consequently she's failing
%mm
and by her testing she should be the top student in the class
oh
she could be easily
but she you know just puts on the air that she's not interested
and mhm we had some knock down drag outs with her.
%mm
She's just really immature the other Japanese girls say,
oh, she's just
you know, it's immaturity.
mhm.
But, %uh, because he just identifies with her mhm. you know he is not performing to where he could perform or should perform.
mhm.
And so when she's not around he does better %uh you know, not great but better.
%mm.
So he,
and it's real interesting, you know,
I do n't know at what point I will call up his cousin,
you know his aunt and uncle live here yeah, I know mhm in town
and %uh, this has got to be a little bit of a problem because his cousin is a gal
she just passed the bar exam and has set up her own law practice.
oh, brother.