So what have you been up to ?
%ah nothing really.
%uh yeah We 've had a big change of %uh leadership over here.
oh yeah ?
yeah,
the base C O changed.
The clinic O I C changed.
The clinic C U nurse changed.
And, just trying to get %uh, you know, the feel for how everybody else is you know, going to respond to them, and how they 're going to respond to everybody else, has been trying, to say the least, for the past oh, probably, month or so.
yeah.
So.
Well, I mean that's still a possibility.
I mean I just did n't--yeah.--feel like it was the right time when I was home last.
So.
I do n't know,
I saw Sayonara again.
I still see you with some little gal flying around going kari san, kari san.
The supper is ready.
Get thy ass on the table.
No.
Nothing like that going on over here.
yeah.
Well I 'll tell you another a-, y-.
Did you hear about Martha getting married ?
No !
Well this supposedly is going to happen.
Now it has n't actually happened yet.
So we may be at ground zero.
I called her to chat I guess about two weeks ago.
%um. And she 'd said, oh, hey Bill. By the way, I'm getting married.
This is a typical Martha pronouncement.
Ye-
It's like, oh, okay.
%uh, you know, tell me about this guy.
How long have you known him and all that.
oh well I 've been dating him since April
but I have n't really told anybody.
And I thought well this is true, cause Martha you and I have been in pretty good touch since April, and you never mentioned it.
But this guy supposedly is a retired Marine pilot.
%um.
He just retired out,
so he's kind of thinking what he wants to do now.
I think for some reason the guy was an A six driver.
And, %uh, it seems like they just really hit it off and clicked.
And I think he has one child but he does n't have custody.
%um. So I do n't have a whole lot of scoop on this guy.
But they have n't set a date or anything.
They just decided they were going to get married, and do it real informal and all this
and
I know.
So. I asked if he was drinking buddies with Luke
and that did n't go over real good.
So I do n't know a whole lot of the scoop.
But, %uh, she's still in San Diego and seems to have settled pretty much there.
%uh. In mine %uh, I 've changed qui-.
I'm trying to remember.
Last time I probably talked to you was what, last spring ?
yeah.
I know,
we 're the world's best at keeping in touch.
Well I'm on the road now moving from New Orleans.
I'm finally left The Big Easy,
and I'm going up to Vermont, believe it or not, for graduate school.
oh, you are.
yeah.
I finally decided to go ahead and get on the ball.
And, I knew I wanted to teach English as a second language as a career
but I 'd never really done anything about it.
So I started doing it in New Orleans as a private tutor and then got picked up by a little private school down there to teach for a couple of months And knew this was what I wanted to do
so I got it
%uh I applied and got accepted into graduate school up in Vermont,
specializes in kicking you out into a one year Master's program.
do that.
So this starts in late August
and I'm on the way up there kind of meandering up to the states and seeing anybody and everybody.
So if your dead old behind was in the States, I could, you know, make a point to go by and find you
but since you 're still in--yeah. the land of large explosions, I have n't been able to do that.
yeah.
Well your tour is what three years, Ker,
or did you get
No, it's only two.
I 've only got about six months left over here.
I was going to say I thought you were winding up.
Do you know where you 're going yet ?
yeah.
Twenty Nine Stumps.
You 're kidding me.
No.
aw, good deal.
I think I know some folks out there.
yeah,
well, you know. I called the detailer,
and, I had originally, %uh, applied for a fellowship to work with the Joint Commission &on Accreditation &of Hospitals. mhm Which would have been a year long out service fellowship up in Chicago which
the town that they had this fellowship in was--like five minutes from where I went to college and--Right.--ten minutes from where I went to high school.
Right.
So I thought yeah it 'd be great. You know.
But, %uh, they picked some physician to go.
yeah.
So the only other choice they gave me was either, %uh, Great Mistakes mhm or Twenty Nine Palms.
mhm.
And, the detailer, %uh.
I said, well, let me think about it for a while.
and, probably forty five minutes after I hung up with her, she called me back, and said that she had spoken to the director of nursing out at Twenty Nine Palms mhm. and the director of nursing out there wanted me to be the department head for emergency nursing.
Wow.
So, I do n't know this lady,
but, %um you know, I 've got my sub specialty in that
and--Sure. with the experience that I 've got,
so You know, I eventually got back to her and said yeah I 'll go ahead and go out there.
yeah.
Well I was going to say.
Because I know you 're still the lieutenant commander, right ?
yeah.
okay. are you looking towards
how soon would commander be coming around the pike for you Kerry ?
%ah, well, I would be in zone next year.
okay,
so that would n't blow the department head thing if you pick up commander would it ?
But
No, no, %uh %uh.
But guess who got deep selected.
For commander ?
yeah.
Let me think.
oh, it's got to be Barney.
oh yeah.
Well now, I also heard.
Now I think I heard this from Martha.
I heard Barney had some kind of terminal disease.
Well, Barney has cancer.
okay.
%uh he had some sort of %uh,----%uh,----mouth and throat cancer.
yeah.
You know he's a big golfer.
Right.
And after they tee off they stick their golf tee in their mouth ?
oh no.
yeah,
well they think that this cancer developed from the bug spray and the weed killer that they put on the grass.
oh man.
yeah,
so I saw Barn-.
I was back in the States in March.
And, %uh, I saw Barney at this convention that I was at.
yeah.
And, he was as skinny as you are.
You 're kidding me.
No.
Good god.
Cause he was always built like a seal or something.
He was huge.
yeah.
And %uh, you know he had gone through chemo, and was in the process of getting radiation
so he like had you know, one hair per square inch on his head. yeah. And, %uh, could barely talk because that's where they were focusing the radiation.
Right.
%uh, and he looked like death warmed over.
You know he
yeah.
You see the Auschwitz pictures,
and that was Barney.
Barney &von Lipstien.
yeah.
yeah.
But, %um,
yeah
he worked for, %uh, General %uh----Krulac.
okay. okay.
You just said the magic words.
So mhm.
I got you.
yeah
I 've got another buddy who, %uh, is a marine pilot.
I'm trying to think if you had ever met this guy.
I do n't think so.
He, %um, worked for him as an aide.
And so he was chuckling the other day, well probably the other day the other year when he heard Krulac had been selected to be the next big boy.
And he thought you know, Bill whatever happens, I'm good to go now, I'm golden.
oh yeah.
yeah,
it was a real surprise to hear,
and when I talked to Barney--Wow. we did n't really spend a whole lot of time talking about the.
yeah.
yeah.
But you know, I asked him point blank,
I said what was what the prognosis was.
yeah.
And he said poor.
%um, but he did n't say terminal.
yeah.
%um
okay I think I had kind of assumed that I guess from talking to Martha because she may have over glorified it.
I do n't know.
Well, you know, and Barney's wife Barb is down in Sansabel
mhm
And I talk to her fairly frequently.
And she said that %um, mhm she just saw him a couple of months ago mhm. And that he was starting to gain weight back again.
So Super. You know, I do n't know whether they managed to get all the cancer with the chemo and the radiation or what.
yeah.
But %uh You know I knew when the list came out
I did n't even have to look, you know, because I knew that both Barney and I were, %um, eligible. mhm Not in zone but eligible.
mhm.
And I knew of anybody, he would be the one that would be deep selected.
Well, being %uh buds with old Chuck Krulac did n't hurt things a whole lot either.
oh no.
Not at all.
And, you know, when I ran into him, %uh, in March, it was at some symposium in San Diego, a Nurse Corps thing.
yeah.
And, %um, Admiral Engel, the Nurse Corps admiral was there.
And You know, Barney knows her like they 're best buds.
So, you know, I'm
No more new pictures with vice president sons on stretchers.
%uh, no, not yet.
I was expecting to see him taping up Socks or Chelsea any day now.
Well, it would n't surprise me either.
Emergency surgeon Barney Berens flown into the White House today.
he's talking about going to D C next.
But mhm I guess you got to spend a year in San Diego for follow up.
yeah.
oh.
And then, %uh, after the whole episode called her back later,
did n't remember it ever happened, and said you know, we got to get together sometime.
oh jeez.
So I think this is what preempted Martha to, %uh.
All her old beaus are definitely losing it.
I think it prompted her to get married.
I'm trying to think if I 've got any other news
I had n't been as much in touch with the other folks tha-know Martha.
I usually am at least keeping abreast of things.
I think Pete and Jennifer still there
you know she picked up lieutenant commander
yeah
I saw Jennifer at the same conference.
oh okay.
yeah
Does she still look like a Teutonic %uh pin-up ?
mhm
oh man.
Although her %uh hair color is getting a little darker.
oh really ?
yeah
%uh she's not bleaching it out quite as much
I did n't know she was a bleached blond
Are you kidding me
oh yeah