But %uh, yeah,
it's still a fairly expensive call
%uh but it's a lot less expensive if we do it that way than if we actually make my parents in law pay it,
then it
the Dutch have such high taxes on those
they consider it a luxury to call around the world
so they tax it really high.
Anyway %um
So you guys will be in either the eighteenth or the nineteenth
and you 're going to go to %uh Amsterdam.
Well I would say is once you 're at a hotel uh-huh %um, why do n't you call me at work and let me know where you are,
and then we can make arrangements that day %um, that I can meet you in Amsterdam.
And maybe I 'll come by, public transport.
It's probably easier for me to come by public transport in Amsterdam than it is for me to come by car to be honest.
mhm.
The streets are small
and there's no parking.
So I probably will come by public transport
but I do n't know.
We 'll see where you 're staying
%um
and there's a lot more for you guys if you want to see stuff
you can see stuff in Amsterdam
and %uh since the days are really long,
I mean it stays light here till about ten thirty eleven o'clock mhm. at night.
So if you want we can take a ride and go see stuff at night
and I can take you to some places,
we can %uh go see some stuff.
%um, depends on what you guys want to see.
So you guys should pick out the things you want to see and let me know.
okay
%um and I 'll sit and talk with Anya about some things that maybe we think that it would be neat for you to see.
So if you do n't have any ideas we 'll just put something together for you.
okay.
%um but yeah
but I can pick you up th-,
you know I 'll probably be there some time around six
and we can like do a quick dinner or something yeah and go see whatever you want to see,
if you want to stay in Amsterdam that's fine.
If you want to go %uh off into the countryside somewhere and see a little bit of, echte Holland, real Holland and we can do that too.
Actually I 've been up to Holland before.
Spent about two weeks up there.
yeah.
So %um,
but that was years and years ago.
With your parents when your father was stationed over here, right ?
yeah.
But we got to see Den Haag and places like that too which we 're obviously not going to see this time.
But %um
has Kim been here before ?
And, an-
No.
oh good.
But then again I'm not sure that Kim would be interested in seeing Shape Headquarters and you know all that kind of stuff. those military things.
Would you be interested in seeing Shape Headquarters again.
No. Not really.
yeah.
I did n't think so.
Somehow I had this feeling that the military taste had been beaten out of you.
yep.
I'm,
the mil-,
I ca n't say too bad things about the military though.
They still have my goods
and they 'll probably hold them hostage.
And they own my body and soul for like another four years
so I just got to pray that they
oh do they ?
yeah.
I owe four years in active reserve time.
aw great.
Do they do that to everyone ?
Milo, get out of there
yeah----%eh everyone %uh who has n't been like you were
you went through like the thirty six two process.
mhm.
So you do n't have it
but yeah if you just separate normally and you have n't served at least eight years, then you owe it.
And that's one of those things they just never tell you up front.
No.
They never said anything
I figured there was something like that because
And I was in the inactive reserves the entire time I was in college too.
So.
yeah.
I mean that's the military.
I have my discharge papers and everything
uh-huh.
and I 've said that yeah I will give a urine sample or a blood sample if they call me back for those, but they 're going to have to pay my trip back to the states. because there's no bases in Holland and I'm not going to pay out of my own expenses to go to Germany or something for them.
If they want me they can pay,
bring me back active duty and pay me for the day if they 're going to drag me off somewhere.
But %uh, first they have to find me.
yeah, that's the other
it was i-,
if you 're in another country I mean and you 're not planning on coming back to the U S what are they going to do even if you do n't.
yeah.
Well I mean I'm still American citizen
and I still would like to be welcome in my own country.
Although g-
%uh I mean if they denied my citizenship and I became a citizen here I probably would n't be a horror either,
but %uh yeah
right now I mean I do want to keep my American citizenship
so.
I kind of want to
Are you going to become a dual citizen ?
What's that ?
Are you going to try and become a dual citizen ?
Have dual citizenship ?
You ca n't do that,
%um, the only way to be a dual citizen is if you 're born in a foreign country
like if I were born in Holland and then had American parents. Then I could be a dual citizen.
But you ca n't
If I would to ask to become a citizen in Holland I would automatically lose my American citizenship.
As far as the Americans are concerned, yeah.
yeah.
The Dutch could care less.
The Dutch would say fine
want to be a dual citizen,
that's fine,
but the Americans as soon as you ask for another citizenship that act of asking for it takes away your American citizenship.
I mean it's kind of stupid.
yeah.
So I'm an expatriot.
An American expatriot.
An American living abroad.
I still have to file a tax return.
Do you ?
yeah.
But my first seventy five thousand dollars worth of income is tax free.
Good grief.
As long as I do n't bring it back to the states.
Good grief.
I R S for you, %huh ?
yeah.
oh they want their share.
They want their piece of meat.
But all foreign taxes are deductible,
and my taxes here are fifty percent of income.
So the taxes here are so much higher that, yeah I would never have to worry about it.
Unless you became C E O of the company then maybe like a thousand dollars would be taxable, right ?
yeah.
Somehow it raises a small amount.
the problem's going to %uh be Anya's American salary is taxable here and at fifty percent
so we 're going to owe some money to the Dutch government on her salary.
aw.
Some amount that has to be deducted a certain amount
and the amount we pay the American government is deductible,
but we 'll still owe some taxes.
Th-,
see I do n't know how it works.
we 're going to be in need of some sort of accountant do it cause I have no clue how that all works.
They do n't have the Quicken Dutch version ?
yeah.
%ah, you know I would n't trust it because it's so complicated with this international garbage or else the Turbo Tax with the Dutch modules. that I just would n't trust it.
I do n't know, %eh.
yeah.
So complicated when you 're dealing with a Dutch tax form.
Anya had to read it
and Anya and her father did n't understand the damn thing.
How am I supposed to understand it ?
I'm really looking forward to moving to Oregon and dealing with,
Oregon you pay state tax
Washington you do n't.
I'm looking forward to that cause %uh
yeah
but You 'll be a student
so you,
I mean you 're
what is your income ?
oh, well
See I think y-, %um,
it 'll probably be about five thousand dollars the portion of this year that I'm in Oregon
and then next year it 'll be eleven thousand.
yeah.
But I mean you 're below the poverty line at that level.
yeah.
So I mean any income that y-
Well
But then I 've already made say like fifteen thousand or whatever here in Washington
but
That should be non taxable out of state income.
It should
but you know it's not going to be a fun tax return year.
I had that when I went into the military.
But then again.
I had Kans-,
I had to file three taxes.
I had to file Georgia, Kansas yeah and then my federal.
So.
Well, %um actually I think this phone call's just about to end cause it's only half an hour,
but %um
So let's see.
I 'll give you a call when we arrive in h-,
or maybe I 'll just call you when we get in Holland just to let you know we 're there,
so if we get in the eighteenth or the nineteenth and then call you back %um when we get to a hotel or something like that.
okay that's a great idea.
as soon as you get into Holland and get yourself settled you can call me
and %uh if it's at night, just call Anya's parents
okay so
and remember that if you dial in Holland you need to add a zero
so like right now okay it's one eight one zero area code.
If you dial in Holland, it's zero one eight one zero. okay in Holland
and then yeah you can just call up
if it's during the work hours, fine, call me at work.
If not, call Anya's parents if you do n't have a new phone number for me.
And if you do, I 'll send it by email okay if I get it before this weekend
we 'll email you something
but if you do n't get email then just call Anya's parents
If we have a phone by then, they 'll be able to give you the number
okay
and just remember to ask for her mother.
and it's Goode, right
Bode
Bode
Bode as in abode
abode
minus the A
okay
great
and
yeah
and I think %uh %uh it's not Frau
%uh %ah %uh It's Mifrau
is
it's Frau in German
it's Frau
mhm
and then Dutch it's Mifrau
I 'll probably never remember that
so hope they wo n't be offended.
nah do n't worry about it.
You can just call her Missus
you can just call her Missus and speak English to her.
she understands
just talk slowly and clearly.
okay
and once you 're in Holland the line will be really clear.
I mean the phones here are pretty good. once you 're in the country.
It's just these to America
it's always kind of iffy