I do n't think you gave me an address, though.
I might not have had one then.
Right.
I did n't get it right at first.
So
So, when did you get there ?
I started work August first
so what's today,
the twentieth or something ?
uh-huh.
The twentieth
yeah.
yeah
%um and I arrived in Detroit just the night before I started work
so I had been here just three weeks.
It will be three weeks Tuesday That I started work
and %um so I worked in the office for a week in a half
and then we had our orientation for the new volunteers
uh-huh.
And that was out in western Michigan on Lake Michigan about four hours from here
so we went up there and spent almost a week %um
sounds nice
Did you take your car
did you drive there ?
I drove up here,
yeah.
From Omaha ?
yup.
Wow.
It took a couple days.
I mean, it would have been maybe fourteen or fifteen hours.
I did n't want to do it all in one day
so I broke it up and stopped in Wisconsin at a friend's house
Right
so anyway we have fifty-six new volunteers that are oriented and off.
They left for their new homes on Thursday
and we came back to Detroit
so
uh-huh.
How many of you are there ?
On staff ?
Right.
There's five of us on staff.
The director--uh-huh.--three area directors, and then
I do n't know what Kate
Kate is the woman I'm living with.
I'm not sure what her position is called
it's kind of like development
And helps the director with fundraising.
I'm not sure.
What special
And the director's in Detroit.
yeah,
we 're all in Detroit
but the area directors %um travel to the cities that the volunteers are in and %um you know meet with the communities and stuff like that.
So
What's your area then ?
I go to Kansas City, Saint Louis, Des Moines,
and then I also have the community here in Detroit.
oh that's cool.
So
yeah
I me-
Old stomping ground
I know.
It's so cool
Do you have to go so many times during the year
or
I go once in the fall for a week to each city and then once in the spring
so well late winter I guess %um
So when I go in October I go first to Kansas City then to Saint Louis
then I come back to Detroit
and we have our %um
our fall retreat is in Dubuque, Iowa
so that's in the middle of my area visits
and then I do my Detroit area visit,
then I go to Des Moines
but the way it works out for Kansas City and Saint Louis I go to Kansas City and at the end of the week it's my birthday
mhm.
So I spend the morning of my birthday with Elisa
and then I fly to Saint Louis and spend you know the afternoon with Chris or Lou or whoever I hook up with in Saint Louis
so mhm. I'm like wow that worked out perfectly.
That's cool.
yeah,
so.
So it sounds like you 're going to be gone a lot ?
yeah,
from October sixth through Thanksgiving I'm here like I do n't know ten days or something nutty like that %um
and then
oh really.
Are you going to go home for Thanksgiving ?
I do n't know yet %um
I'm going home in September for just a three day weekend or something like that %um because September is pretty much one of the slowest months on the job
so
mhm
And I have n't been to Texas in a while
so I thought that would work out
and %um then at Christmas time I think well one of my cousins %um is getting married near Kansas City
and I'm hoping my family will just come up to Kansas for that
%mm.
mhm
And then I 'll go there and see them
so I do n't know about Thanksgiving yet.
That's too far away to figure out
so anyway I will be.
Gosh, are you happy ?
yeah,
I am
it was really hard to make the decision
I actually at one point decided no I'm not going to go
just like I do n't think I want to start all over again
and--mhm. I'm liking being in Omaha and all that sort of thing
and so I called and told the director you know I thought about it a lot blah blah blah
but I %eh just do n't think it's right for me right now
and mhm He was like
I do n't know him very well
but %uh he had strep throat when I was here
I mean he just was n't feeling well
I mean was like well.
mhm.
okay
and %uh later that morning Kate called me at work in Omaha.
And I'm like Kate are calling to make this really hard on me
an-?
%eh
She's like we just want you to think about one more thing
and %eh the job is supposed to be a two year commitment
uh-huh.
and that was kind of like one of the things that I'm thinking I do n't know about doing a two year commitment %eh you know all this sort of thing
That was too long
or it was too short.
well--no,
I mean it could be longer
so it's not like it was too short.
It was just. you know
I do n't know.
I do n't know what I was thinking
but anyway so they 're like what if it was just a one year commitment
and I said well I 'll think about it
kind of threw me off
and then I called later
and I asked the director if %um
I said well would you be willing to
a first year %um area director makes seventeen thousand
and a second year area director makes eighteen thousand five hundred.
First year you get three weeks vacation.
Second year you get four weeks
and I said well would you be willing to hire me as if I was coming in at a second year mhm. %um %eh at eighteen five with four weeks of vacation
and he said yeah he would be willing to do that.
Wow that's a lot of vacation.
yeah
it is which is wonderful
That's great.
%mm. And that's more important to me than money
so
Right
yeah
and we get the whole week from Christmas to New Year
that's one of our weeks of vacation
so it's only mhm. you know in addition to that
So anyway,
And the rest you can take pretty much %eh when you want
I mean you work it around your schedule.
Right.
yeah,
you got to work it around your schedule which is
in you know summer is not a really good time to take it because you 're ending one year and starting the next year and you know doing a lot with the volunteers coming in
mhm.
--so I 'll probably try to take most of it before next summer,
we 'll see.
mhm.
%um so I thought about it that day
and I ended up calling back and saying okay I'm coming to Detroit
so It's been really good since I 've
I mean actually I made the decision
and I thought oh God what am I doing you know
I just was still unsure about it
but in a couple days I just felt really at peace with it and remained so throughout the time that I prepared to leave
and then ever since I 've been here I keep thinking okay why am I so okay with this
I'm going to be falling apart any minute, right you know ?
Because I'm really used to transition hitting me a little bit harder especially when I was so ambivalent about the decision
but Right. %um I do n't know.
It's been great
That's great.
So
yeah.
Great.
Do n't question it ?
Go with it
yeah
exac-
that's what I said finally %um
I was telling somebody
somebody is like well how you doing ?
I said well I'm fine you know
I keep wondering how long that's going to last.
I'm fine
what's wrong with me
and then finally I'm like you know I am just going to be okay that I'm okay
and if I'm not okay later that's fine
but right now I'm okay
I have to stop wondering when it's going to end
So that's kind of where I 've been.
%hm %hm So tell me about New York
I got your postcard.
oh, New York was really fun
%um I loved the city.
It was
yeah.
I do n't know
I did n't expect to enjoy the city so much.
You had been there before though had n't you
no ?
Just really briefly.
I went to Long Island for a friend's wedding
and Katie and I, my housemate from Oregon went together
uh-huh.
and we took a train into the city, a cab to the Metropolitan Museum &of Art ran around there for an hour and half, took a cab back, and then the train back to Long Island
so I mean that was it.
That's all we saw.
oh that was it.
%um and I liked that
but it did n't even feel like I had actually been in the city you know.
mhm.
%um so this was more like
you know we did a lot of the **touristy** stuff and walked on the Brooklyn Bridge and mhm. took the ferry and %um walked in Central Park and went to a show and all that sort of stuff
so it was really fun %um
Sounds great
and we also went out to Long Island where Joe's mom lives--uh-huh. and spent time with the whole family So--which was okay.
It was good.
. At first when we were planning the trip he's like oh I hope we can go out and you know go to the beach and you can meet my brother and my nieces and nephe-
he's got three brothers
%um two of them live on Long Island.
You want to meet my brothers and my nieces and nephews
and I'm like %um I do n't know Joe
I do n't
I said I think maybe we need the time just to kind of figure out where our relationship is before
mhm.
I said it's not that I do n't want to meet your family
it's just
I do n't know
--That's a lot at once. I know his mom too
and I think she's a little bit leery of this whole relationship based on what happened in the past you know
mhm.
and I hurt her son and all that sort of thing.
I'm like I just do n't know if I'm ready for that
but it ended up happening that it was his brother's birthday
and we were out there to go to the beach
and so I'm like okay you know I can handle this
and %uh it was very nice actually
so Good. that was fine
and %uh
So where did things end up ?
oh I do n't know, Vick,
%um it was really fun
and I mean in some ways Joe is somebody I 've known a long time and and know pretty well
but in other ways it's like this is a whole new relationship
mhm.
so it's kind of weird to walk that balance like well you know, one minute we 're talking seriously like where would we live if we wanted to be together and the next you know I'm like Wow. wait a minute
I ca n't believe we 're talking about this
I mean
What's he doing now ?
He's in his last year of graduate school at Columbia University.
He's getting his Masters in Public Administration.
uh-huh.
And he's been working with this man who's starting a new nonprofit organization
%um
he worked with him last summer and this summer and probably will work with during the school year.
Beyond that he does n't know what he's going to do you know
but you know it's kind of hard because--Kind of open but I mean chances are really good that he 'll want to stay in New York or at least on the east coast, you know ?
Right.
Kind of interested in politics
so D C would be an option
and I do n't know.
It's just hard because that's not really yeah where I'm at
but I mean we 're both sort of like we do n't know where life is taking us
and
Hard to start a relationship when that
yeah,
so what do we do
you know do we make decisions based on each other
I mean this was just the second weekend we 've seen each other
so he's coming here over Labor Day weekend--
mhm.
and then because my schedule gets so crazy starting in the middle of October I am going to go there the first weekend of October.
That was kind of hard for us to decide
you know he has n't even been here yet.
I have n't seen him since the Fourth of July weekend
and we decided well you know let's go ahead