yeah
so yeah
I 've been there like five or six times Wow. because I drove across the country three times.
I 've been there wait, yes three times I think.
Well this is our second time.
yeah.
The first time we had been it was like twelve years ago
Kevin and I went on like a six week camping trip you know
you know from Idaho to Washington we hit all kinds of national parks and stu-.
uh-huh.
oh yeah
it's so beautiful %huh.
And You know we spent you know couple days in Yellowstone and then you know a very little time in Grand Tetons
but we spent a lot of time in the national forests right around there because you know we were really camping and really serious--
uh-huh.
mhm.
And like we went into Jackson, the town
and we were like----%ah let me out of here.
You know it was like a traffic jam and all these stores
and we sort of did n't know what was coming.
We were like oh my god traffic jams
uh-huh.
What kind of tourist hell is this ?
Get us out of here.
of course then we were like you know let's stay here a couple days.
And now you guys have a five year old
and
yeah.
This is kind of cute.
oh look
there's the Benneton outlet.
oh you guys have really turned into yuppies, %huh ?
Scary.
What we should n't have a house in the suburbs.
Well if I'm unemployed I ca n't be a yuppie can I ?
Do n't I need to be professional ?
%um. yeah
I guess.
Well Norm and I are worse because we live in the suburbs.
%uh so.
Well really silly
we 'll save that for our self respects.
So are you coming or not ?
Are you coming or not ?
Are you coming or not ?
I do n't know.
It's up to my husband.
Hopefully he 'll finish soon %uh----and %um
I thought you said he was finished.
You know I mean
yeah
he is finished.
I thought you said he did send it today.
He is finished.
He just has to defend.
So I do n't know.
We 'll see what happens.
I 'll talk to him today.
He has a job
so.
If not when are you guys moving ?
We 're not moving for a year.
oh okay.
Good.
We wo n't move till okay. %mm probably June.
okay.
Maybe early June.
Because if I do n't come when Norm does his defense uh-huh, uh-huh. which I really want to come for that
but you know I might not be able to for other reasons.
uh-huh.
But if I ca n't come then then I'm going to stop in January.
Well I 'll probably stop in January anyhow. Excellent Because I'm going to %uh in January with the baby to %uh----see %uh----the
it 'll come out to see the relatives.
Show off le bebe.
yeah.
Show off le bebe.
Excellent
Do you think ei-
I mean eight weeks is not really
well it 'll be older than eight weeks
it 'll be like ten weeks by then.
That's not too early to travel is it ?
Nope.
I thought it would be like much easier to travel if we went when he was ten weeks than--yep, yep, yep.--you know after that.
when they 're new infants it's like bring along a blanket so you can nurse them.
And like you could do anything.
You could probably go like do skydiving or something.
yeah.
I know.
And if you were nursing the baby while you were skydiving the baby would be like okay.
yeah.
Alright.
As long as we 're nursing while we 're doing this that's okay.
That's what I thought too.
And they do n't need that many clothes when they 're that young.
And they do n't need toys.
So.
You know basically you do n't need to bring anything. %uh but you know your two boobs.
%uh And since I ca n't really go anywhere without those anyhow
They 're hard to forget
yeah.
Hard to leave behind.
yeah.
So I mean you know then we can just use disposables if we 're travelling,
so
oh definitely.
Do n't
we did
one time like we were travelling in the car
we were like oh we can just bring a little mini diaper pail and all.
yeah.
That was after one time
I went never again.
Disposables for travelling.
And %um Absolutely. Every now did you supplement nursing with bottles at all or did n't you ?
No.
No.
Somehow like I read too many of the books
so I thought it was like no formula.
It does make a difference
like I always thought formula smells kind of disgusting
oh yeah.
Like when they throw up it smells disgusting
and when they make their little doo-doo's it smells grosser if they 're on formula.
now you 'll find this hard this believe but if they 're totally breast milk for like the first couple months--mhm. their number twos do n't smell at all.
oh okay.
They do n't smell like anything.
It's like it looks like shit but it does n't smell like anything.
oh okay.
And did you pump or not ?
yeah I pumped.
What joy that was.
Did you use a manual or %uh did you get one of those little battery ones ?
Battery operated deal.
yeah.
I think so too.
Now like I can tell you
I can find the exact brand name of it if you want some time.
But like it had like this little like nozzle attachment thing on it which was what it said you were supposed to use.
mhm.
mhm.
And I used it the first time for like three seconds
I was like----%ah get this thing off me.
That really hurt.
Do n't ever do that again.
And I forget what it said it was for
I think it said it was for if you had small breasts or something.
I do n't know what
oh okay.
so like I took that thing
and I threw it away.
It was like a little part you put on top of a nozzle thing.
It was just like an extra attachment
and I took that
and I--mhm okay.--threw it away
okay.
And then it was fine.
okay.
So.
yeah.
That seemed to work fine
ye-
You know if you could avoid it you know if it was a choice in your life to say well for the first couple months I 'll just be home
and I 'll just get a lot of rest
and I 'll take it easy
and if I'm not----sleeping at night I 'll just sleep during the day or sleep when the baby sleeps.
yeah.
Not do this whole pumping thing
I mean if I had to do it all over that's what I would do.
oh yeah
because I was thinking it would be easier because then other people could feed the baby and you would n't have to be so tied to it.
yeah.
And if you want to go out to a movie or something.
Mean that you know did you
Well we never go out.
I mean you know what Norm and I are like
I mean.
Well believe me
when you have a baby you 'll want, to put it in someone else's house or someone come watch it in your house and go anywhere else.
See that's what I was thinking like for my in laws and stuff when we go home for Christmas.
mhm.
It would be so nice to just you know leave the baby with them
but you ca n't leave the baby.
yeah.
I mean you know you might have to try one or two before you find one that works
but yeah. once
and you know they have like things and like can set the tension or whatever
they get suck power.
the tension
they 're like the little knob on your sewing machine.
You can set the power level and stuff
and it g-
Or like extra suck for just starting to suck.
You know it's like once you get used it i-
you know at first you feel like what am I doing putting this machine on me
it's disgusting or obscene or something.
But once you get used to it %uh you know you can like read while you 're doing it.
It was like boring.
uh-huh.
okay.
And what does it go into
like a little plastic bag **thingy** ?
%uh well the thing I had was----like you screwed on this whole motor suction part--uh-huh.--on to something that was just like a jar bottom.
You know just looked like a screw thing so that it went to this plastic container.
okay.
And you can reuse the plastic container ?
And then what I would do is just %uh I would bring little bags like that you 're supposed to put formula in with me to work.
oh okay.
And then I 'd pour it from the container into the plastic bag and seal it up and then go you know rinse out the container thing and wash it the next day.
And did you throw away the plastic bags when you were done ?
Well see then the plastic bag is designed to go inside a bottle thing.
yeah.
so you throw the plastic bag away when you 're done.
After your baby drinks the milk yeah.
yeah
okay
okay.
I'm just trying to you know
we have a f-%um %uh %uh
And that way you can freeze them
so you know we 'd end up
yeah.
there was sort of like a go or no go for breast pumping
like once you just kind of got everything going it was like it ended up I was pumping too much you know
it was like %mm okay. we ended up with a freezer full
like we found a year later a freezer full of breast milk.
God.
oh let's just throw this all away.
It's like all that hard work
but you know it was either explode or you know pretty much
But I thought like you totally got down to the level so even if you only breast fed you know once a day that that's how much milk you would have.
I do n't know.
All I can tell you is to get a big bag.
okay
It's like once I started at work I you know
once he was getting bigger or something there was
like I was making two bags
and it was like if you sat down you either did two bags or you 'd explode
that was it.
And she just could n't quite drink that much
so
%mm okay.
You know that was why I was working in the morning
the morning's when you do the most.
Everybody's different
so it probably
yeah
yeah
that's true.
Well I only have fourteen weeks left
so.
Wow you 're getting there.
I know
I know.
Stopping with the miscarriage anxiety starting with the delivery anxiety.
I know
oh no.
I had the miscarriage anxiety up until the
you know because you have all those well wishers you know telling you about all those things you know.
ooh everybody wants to start telling you these things
like people would like corner me to tell me about their hysterectomies.
It's like somehow some O B gyn connection that they see you and they think of O B gyn and they 've got to tell you about it.
oh my god.
you know
yeah
Well I 've heard the cord accident stories which had me like totally and completely freaked out.
are you still there ?
yeah
I'm still here
oh
so I talked to my doctor about it
and apparently it's very rare
so do n't ask me why I 've heard so many stories about it
but
oh yeah
and then there was this friend I had
she was eight and a half months pregnant
and you know baby had a cord accident
and she died.
Like most people they just have babies
it all works out.
yeah.
I know.
I know
so I'm not so freaked out anymore.
Good.
That was like
I was talking to Erica on the phone
and %uh that's what she told me
she's like but d-
to say that it was okay she was like saying that well you know but this woman is pregnant again and you know will have her baby again soon
so it was like no big deal.
No
yeah.
But having never been pregnant before, you know I'm sure Erica has like no idea
this woman must be on just you know absolute. pins and needles.
She must be having the most miserable pregnancy in the whole world.
yeah
that's such a public thing.
Like everyone knew she was pregnant.
I mean once you 're eight and half months, man, I mean there was nothing nice about it
I know.
you know if you 've made it through the eight and a half months, man, you deserve a baby.
I bet
I know
you know and then to have to go back to work and you know
and then the second pregnancy must be just like fraught with anxiety and especially since it happened at eight and a half months, you know.
yeah
and everybody is probably saying now you better really drink milk this time.
You better eat your cottage cheese now.
I Know.
I know
I know
yeah.
I actually did start drinking more milk
and it has helped with all my little aches and pains and stuff.