So, anyway, how are you doing these days ?
Things are going very well.
I think I had mentioned before %uh, that there's a company now that I'm working with %um, %uh, which is very much just myself and Guss.
oh.
And that %um
No, you had n't mentioned that.
%eh, oh, okay.
okay, so %um
%eh you told me that you were leaving the company that you were at,
and you were entertaining offers.
And, %uh
well it seemed to make sense since I had a client to just kind of set up my own company, of sorts.
%um oh. So things are going extremely well.
So, I had one client who said that he 'd pay me a minimum amount.
You know, he, %uh,
there would be a minimum amount of work, of about %uh, a day a week for the next two three years. mhm. Which is sufficient to pay all my bills then
so I decided that it would make sense to do this.
%um and, %um, I 've been getting substantially more work than then.
%mm.
So I'm quite pleased.
Well that's good.
%um, so I have a bunch of %uh work that I need to do on my flat this year.
I 've been telling you that I needed to do that roof atrium for quite some time.
But, %uh, it should come out this year.
oh, well that's good.
It should be done in a few months.
oh, yeah
I remember So you talking a little bit about it at one point.
yeah,
yeah.
So you have no intentions of coming over this way any time soon ?
%um. I do n't see the finances occurring uh-huh, right. for a while.
%um, actually right at the moment finances are not going real well.
But %ah well. I am working on that one.
%uh.
It's just But %um %uh, %uh, the main reason for that is I had not really anticipated a few expenses that recently came up %ah. %uh, related to a couple of burglaries that I had.
oh, harsh. Harsh.
yeah.
yeah,
and.
Not a whole lot I can do about that now.
Indeed. Indeed.
have to deal with the situation.
And
So that's what I'm doing.
Sounds good.
But %um Anyway, %uh One of the main reasons that I 've been such a pathetic, %uh, correspondent has been work.
I 've actually been doing a lot of it.
oh wow.
And %uh, I turned in my Master's thesis back in May,
and I'm actually presently working on, %um, several, %uh, articles oh, okay. Impressive. from it.
yeah,
actually it turns out that one thing, one little bit in what I was doing, %uh, is going to turn out to be very important in the end. %uh, from what I had been reading in the literature.
You see the one very annoying thing about all of this, was my advisor has been in France for a year and a half.
yeah.
And this made writing my thesis very annoying because you know there was n't much discussion.
yeah.
yup,
yup.
But, %um Anyway, I had been kind of telling him that, you know, from my reading of the literature, I thought that this one little alteration I had made in my model was kind of clever and unique.
mhm.
And it made the one type of solution occur, which was seen experimentally,
but none of the other models %uh, had ?
Yes.
the-,
I'm looking at, %um, multi mode lasers.
And one of the things that they find experimentally are what they call anti phased, %uh, states, where if you look at the total intensity uh-huh. of the laser, you get an oscillation which is characterized by one frequency.
Yes.
okay.
if you separate out the different modes of the laser mhm. and look at one of those, you get more than one frequency.
okay.
So what's happening is that the modes are oscillating out of phase so that they completely mask each other's Exactly. %hm. oscillations on these other frequencies.
And %uh With a pretty simple model you can find that frequency in a transient,
but you ca n't find that frequency in a driven, %uh, frequency.
You ca n't find so that it will sustain.
okay.
Yes.
So yeah, that particular frequency according to most models damps out very quickly.
And so you should n't actually really be able to ever see it.
%hm.
The only thing is, that, when you do the experiment you see it.
Got it,
got it.
I see.
So, %um, I found a simple modification of the original formula, which unfortunately makes the solutions horrendously nasty. And in most cases, %uh, insoluble.
But yeah. it gives a driving term.
oh, okay.
So, it actually creates a situation where you get the right sort of answer, you just ca n't always write it down very easily.
Exactly.
oh wow.
so you 're pushing forward the bounds of theoretical laser, %uh, whatever it is science.
But
which, %um, is kind of interesting considering that that's not really my thing.. Indeed. Indeed. being an experimentalist, not a theorist.
%um Indeed. oh wow. oh, impressive. But
so are you going to get an article in Nature or something ?
%um, actually, I'm not sure if we 're shooting for op-,
I think Optics Letters is probably the one that we 're shooting for, or else, perhaps, though I do n't think it's quite that significant, would be Phys Rev Letters.
%hm.
But, %uh, we want to write a letter, and then a couple articles.
yeah.
%hm. impressive.
And I do n't know how much you know about scientific literature,
but letters are much more prestigious than, articles.
oh, okay.
oh, I did n't realize that.
okay.
yeah,
so that's why it's actually a big deal is
I mean, you know, writing a couple of articles based on your Master's thesis, is, not at all unusual in Physics
and yeah. %uh, it's the fact that I would be writing a letter that is the impressive part of it all.
And what's actually kind of interesting is I kept telling Neil that I thought that this was kind of significant.
And Neil kept writing back that I should tone this part of the thesis down that You know, people see the anti phased motion,
and it's true
they do in the transients
And I was having a lot of trouble getting across to him that all of the literature has this frequency in the transients Yes. %eh and not driven.
And, %uh, what happened was after I had turned in my thesis but before I saw Neil again, he went to a conference in Rochester and there this was a big issue among the people who were doing this work, was, that their models could n't show this as a driven frequency,
yet their experiments showed it as a driven frequency.
oh cool.
and so Neil then--Said oh just a second I--like a week later came to Bryn Mawr
and he said, hey Lowell, we got to write this up.
Exactly.
And I was like, well I 've been telling you that Neil.
Indeed.
So Cool. Cool. that's mostly the sort of stuff that I'm spending a lot of time on now. %um
Well it 'll look good on your C V, your resume.
so you might as well spend the time.
Yes, well,
%uh, no, it's definitely worth doing. %um,
and I would have been spending more time on it if it were n't for %uh dealing with the burglary issues oh yeah but that I 've been dealing with.
So are you still living in that house in the middle of the park.
Yes.
yeah, okay.
yeah.
I mean the thing that i-
this place is incredibly easy to break into if you want to.
oh.
It's not a question of whether or not, %uh you know, that was easy,
it was just that no one really knew it was worth breaking into.
Exactly.
Exactly.
yeah.
And so the problem is that now they found out that it's worth breaking into.
yeah.
And unfortunately.
Well, it's kind of odd.
They 've stolen very weird things for the most part.
%hm.
as far
yeah
as a.
The first time they broke in, what they stole was just bizarre,
mostly worthless stuff.
And, %uh %huh the most worthwhile thing as far as monetary value went that they stole was the pre-amplifier of my stereo. Unfortunately, because it's a nice pre-amplifier,
it has an off board power supply which they did n't steal, which makes the thing that they **stoled** absolutely worthless.
%huh.
So.
That's bizarre. Bizarre.
so when they broke in the second time did they steal the %uh offboard amplifier ?
Actually, no,
all they stole the second time was my bike.
%huh.
Which was actually where the major problem came. Exactly. Exactly. yeah. Is that I suddenly had no transportation.
And so, I then had to go bike hunting and eventually get another bike,
and %mm. that cost me a lot of time.
yeah.
Exactly.
Because,
yes
Spending a lot of time hunting for bikes, and nah well. then getting one purchased, and then having to, you know, go get it and things like that.
But, that's dealt with at least.
And so %uh, that's yeah at least dealt with.
Now I just have to work on the financial aspects of all of this.
But yeah. yeah.
At least Well that would make sense during the summer %uh according to the stipulations of my fellowship, I can actually earn money during the summer.