Great.
What should we talk about ?
Well I do n't know.
Tell me what's going on in America.
I have n't seen the news in ages.
Really ?
You did d-
In the American news I mean
I know what's going on in Russia
but
yeah.
Well let's see.
What's going on ? %uh
You want me to just give you some headlines ?
yeah.
Give me some headlines.
What's Clinton up to ?
up-
yeah.
I was just going to say Clinton just came out yesterday with %uh his statement concerning affirmative action.
uh-huh.
and basically he has in the past said that he was not in favor %uh you know of making %um allowances strictly based on race
but at the same time %uh the analysis in the news shall we say the conservative analysis in the news is that Clinton just came out and said that he does n't believe in quota systems and in reverse discrimination but that he does believe that affirmative action is necessary to move %uh you know black Americans forward and to give them the opportunities that they 've been denied.
So he's kind of walking a tight rope.
You know what I'm saying ?
Right.
In other words l-
He's trying to please everybody.
yeah.
Let's see if we can make everybody happy
I think that he's
Then he just ends up making nobody happy.
I think you 're right.
Because you know affirmative action is really under attack in the United States from many different quarters right now.
and it's a big issue because it's supposed to be a race
%uh color blind
we 're supposed to be race color blind
and yet it's like contractors that are bidding you know with a high bid or higher than--the lowest bid are still getting the contracts only because they are of ethnic protected you know black or whatever.
And it's really you know
Right.
And then so they 're taking lawsuits to the Supreme Court and all of this
so it's
Wow.
Another thing that just came up was that the Supreme Court said that the redistricting of the congressional districts one of which is in Georgia violated the Constitution because it was based primarily on race.
There was you know a new
What did they do i-
They were doing it because like they were trying to make it less segregated ?
They were trying to make the district majority black Americans
so therefore they drew it %uh all the way across the state.
You see what I'm saying ?
oh right.
uh-huh.
a very narrow district
and it created a majority black district which then elected a black representative
and then it was challenged because it said well the only reason that it has been done this way is just to ensure that it was majority black
and that's not
right
you know
Hello ?
I'm here.
okay.
Anyway
I'm mulling all this over.
yeah.
I mean it
So it's interesting because we 're doing a pre-departure orientation
so we had our hot topics discussion today where we break in small groups
and we talked about like political correctness and racial prejudice and sexual harrassment, feminism and just like different topics that they might encounter in America where the people have different attitudes than here in Russia.
So that was one of the things kind of like that
But I'm not really up on what the attitude is in America because I have n't been there in so long.
Well there's a lot of frustration I think over the fact that there 're a number of evidences that the affirmative action program is in fact discriminating in the other direction
and people are saying wait a minute.
Why do n't we just try to give everybody an equal shot
and if someone feels that they 've been discriminated against because of their race go at it from the standpoint of trying to remedy it through the courts rather than saying that government has to give X number of contracts to minority no matter what.
Right.
And as a result some people are getting contracts just because of the color of their skin
and you know what I'm saying
it's still
When they might not even be the most qualified.
either they 're not the low bid
you know normally on contracts you take the low bid that meets the quality specification.
Right.
but now there have been several cases where clearly you know they did n't get it because they just were n't the right color skin.
So now Right. is that really remedying the situation
or is it's creating a lot %uh of %uh resentment ?
And %uh Right. it's kind of too bad.
How long
God what a mess.
oh it's a mess.
It really is.
how long have you been there by the way ?
Over here ?
%um it 'll be three years in November.
Wow.
So you really are out of touch are n't you ?
Well I like to think I'm not totally out of touch
Well I know what it's like.
I was never very in touch even when I was still America
so.
oh okay.
You 're that type.
I got you.
I was always in my own world anyway
so.
Well I know what it's like because having lived over in Korea for almost three years %um you know when you come back all of a sudden you know the society has changed a little bit you know.
uh-huh.
New terminology.
New buzzwords. And all that stuff.
Right.
Of course when you get to be over forty like me %um, you can miss that stuff just being an American anyway.
It all passes
I do n't know.
I always think when you get older you 're more informed.
When I was in college I did n't know what was going on.
I was too busy.
yeah.
I'm thinking of %uh you know like %uh lingo that the young people come up with you know.
Younger people.
yeah.
I think I'm more informed now than I was in college.
I was sort of out of it in college.
But %uh by the way did I tell you that I have a new job ?
Well in your email you said that you 're going to start your new job somewhere.
You did n't say what your new job was.
oh okay.
%um I'm resigned here last week effective August tenth
and I 'll be taking the job of the director of %um the English language program of a private university %uh in Atlanta a larger university.
uh-huh.
So it's kind of a step up for me.
it's called Mercer University.
oh
well you 'll have to send us material from there
hey.
Now we 're talking.
do--to our advisor.--you send people into E S L programs ?
Well we get requests about it.
I do n't know how many people actually go because a lot of them you know do n't have a lot of money
but we get students every year that ask about it that say they have money.
Well you can be
They usually do n't come though and tell us whether or not they go.
yeah.
Well you can be sure that we will send you information because %uh you know I 've got to go down there
and we 're trying to improve the program
they 're adding thousands of dollars of %uh state of the art language %uh lab equipment and all of that
and they 're restructuring everything
so that's what I'm supposed to do next.
Do they have any scholarships for foreign students ?
I 've never heard of a scholarship for an English language program personally
but I think
We never did either
but I keep thinking I'm going to find one of these days.
yeah.
I know.
I'm sure that they pro-
You know I e-
the question of whether they have scholarships for international students %um for the regular program is a good one
and I 'd like to find out.
I 'd like to think that they do
and I think uh-huh. they might
but I do n't know yet.
Right.
it's not going to be my particular area of expertise you know i-
Right.
that's going to be regular program
but still I would like to know so I can tell people like you.
So were you looking for a new job
or did they just like come to you ?
Well I was looking for a new job
and I 've been looking for about a year and a half
%uh.
and %uh when I went to NASA in New Orleans you know the one that you missed
I know the one, the great one that was so much fun.
oh it was a blast
but I'm not sure it was more fun than Miami I mean you know.
But it was fun though.
You would have enjoyed it
and as I said to you in the email %uh the Russians and the Siberians and all of these people were just hilarious.
I mean we had a nice little visit.
We really did.
%uh it's too bad I did n't
oh I ca n't believe they were calling her Lovie.
We were in stitches to hear that she was calling herself Lovie.
oh really ?
You did n't know that ?
Well because you would n't say that.
Because in Russian it's just you know Lyubov
but it's just a Russian name.
I mean you would n't think of translating it into English
but the thought of people calling her Lovie in America is so funny.
Well that's what she said.
I mean I did n't know any
Well then I mean like it's just so her to do that that I just think it's hysterical.
Is it ?
yeah.
You should have seen them dancing around with the crowd out there when they had this %uh %uh Carribean band or something %uh running through the streets of New Orleans.
It was kind of interesting.
uh-huh.
But %um
yeah.
And we went on a shrimp boat tour also.
It was kind of fun.
%um you know you got to sort of do that kind of weird stuff.
%um I interviewed for this job at NASA.
So that's kind of how it got to where it was %uh you know
that was a major point to reach is do that interview
and that was a good interview
so
Right.
yeah
%uh I knew they were trying to expand their program
and I said well if you 're going to do that call me because I would be interested in an opportunity
and so I 've taken it you know.
Well that's great.
yeah.
I'm excited about it.
It's g-
Well what city were you in ?
Were you far from Atlanta ?
No.
Actually %uh Branow is located north of Atlanta about fifty miles north %uh up the freeway which around here is you know not even considered to be that far.
uh-huh.
but this
And I do n't even live in Gainesville which is the city where Branow is
I commute about thirty three miles from the southwest.
It's a forty five minute ride.
And I 'll be commuting
so you 'll be closer now. [E_S
Well actually I may be two or three miles closer.
I'm going to be commuting down into Atlanta.
see I live north of Atlanta.