could you enroll in two other courses if you wanted to ?
In addition to the one you 're already in, are there two other things that you 'd also like to take ?
For example.
I know there's a limit for students who e-
%uh a limit for what ?
You know I'm thinking a lot about this job that I just took that you know you seem to think is a dead end and obviously does n't make enough money
and you know I do n't know I'm going to like it.
You do n't know that going into a job.
There's
I understand that.
Well tha-
I understand that.
You 've taken it
and that's a
I feel like I just made a big mistake.
Liz I ca n't tell you whether you did or not.
It just feels lousy.
And I just tried for the longest time to figure out what to do.
Liz, Liz, I do n't know whether you made a mistake or not.
I ca n't possibly tell.
I do n't even have enough information to say whether you did or not.
And you will find out.
And if it's a huge mistake you 'll just quit,
that's all.
You have no way of knowing.
Did you tell the public health people that you definitely do n't want that job ?
No
I did n't tell them anything.
oh okay.
is that really such an awful job ?
Sounded to me like a lot of interesting things.
Sounded to me like too much
but it sounded like a very interesting set of things.
Is that something you definitely would not want to do ?
I you had said that was an easier job in some ways.
What ?
Actually I do n't think so anymore because I think that it's too many things.
for either one of them are you going to have to spend hours preparing outside of the hours that you actually get paid for ?
I do n't know yet.
Because I do n't think that that would be warranted----at the salary that they 're giving you.
I think that you ought to be able to circumscribe your hours very carefully.
I just got this call yesterday from this
I mean I j-
Liz
it was on a message on my machine when I came home from this nurse at a high school nearby saying I should call her about openings in the district that she called me because of one of the letters I wrote to one of the principals oh yeah ? who knows what kinds of openings there are.
mhm.
mhm.
So may-
Lizzy I know how up in the a-
you know when I was in graduate school I spent a lot of time in my last year of college thinking about whether wanted to go into biophysics or wanted to teach little kids.
And I knew it was obviously because what I really wanted to do was go into biophysics but also have my own little kids.
But I went into biophysics.
By the end of the year I 'd met Daddy
and I decided that was going to be it.
I really
Daddy was really going to be the one.
I got very unhappy with the science.
and I just walked out of one lab
and I said no this is it.
I just do n't want it.
I wanted to be teaching little kids.
Because Daddy was at that point noncommittal to say the least.
%um and he was also leaving for Syracuse.
And so a friend of mine sat down with me, Wayne Meyers
and he said he was a very bright guy.
He was the one whose shoulder I cried on when I took Dexadrin that time too for
the doctor had given it to me for cramps
and I ended up getting %um depressed for twenty-four hours.
%um and he said to me you really want to change.
I said yeah I really want to go.
He says well take the bus across the river this afternoon because I had already applied and been accepted to the
I mean it went so far that I applied both to biophysics and to %um Harvard School of Ed.
And I did n't apply to any other ed schools because I figured I could get in there which I had.
And I went across the river that day
and I said can I get into your next year's class.
And they said absolutely.
And I mean by then it was like May.
Certainly April.
Certainly April not earlier.
And I remember Mama Sadie was upset about it.
But everybody knew why I was doing it
and everybody kn-
it was obvious even to Daddy why I had to do that for a while.
I could n't just study science for a while.
And I was twenty-two. Twenty-one.
and %um yeah I guess I was twenty-two already.
%um and it's not any rational kind of thing Liz.
It's hormonal.
It's absolutely hormonal.
I mean here you are,
you are thirty.
And it's no wonder that you do n't know what you want to do.
I did n't know what I wanted to do at that stage.
Well I did
but it was out of reach.
And for you it's obviously out of reach too.
Unless it works out with Matt you have n't met him.
And therefore I'm disappointed in how you 're going about it because I 've known so many people who did n't get married and so many people who got married too late to have children.
It's very sad.
I find it very sad.
I did n't expect that I would be in this position with my children.
Well actually I expected it with Jonathan.
I expected to worry about him not you because he was very slow socially.
and you know you never can tell with life.
There are n't any rules about it
and %uh nobody has written the future.
And it's %uh %eh prayer
and %uh %eh penitence does n't really help.
It's going to happen,
things are going to happen when they happen.
But there are ways to help them along.
There are ways to help them along.
And maybe you 're doing them
but I do n't see it.
I know you went out with some guy the other night.
maybe you are looking actively
but I do n't see it.
So all I can do is sit and worry and be concerned
and I do n't think Can we talk about the job things now ? that
Well what about the job things ?
I ca n't talk about them.
I do n't know anything about them.
You want to tell me about them ?
Well you do n't like the job I just took.
Now wait a moment.
Do n't
Well Daddy says they 're less important than the other stuff
and I agree.
But do n't tell me I do n't like the job you just took Lizzy.
I do n't know enough about it.
You know I raised you
and I thought I was
So maybe I can sign ten hours in the school district doing something else.
Maybe you can.
%eh that would be interesting if you know you have hours during the week that are available.
do n't block them out until you find out whether or not you can take an art course during the week. so that you can have your
I mean you know I 'd like to see you flying down to %um where was it that they had that hiking group San Francisco for the weekends.
mhm
I want to fly out to Michigan and visit Matt.
That's where I want to fly.
%uh I 'd like to see you do that too.
All I want is your happiness Liz.
And I think I know what will make you happy.
Well I just want to figure out what I want to do with my life.
You know I feel like I'm never going to figure it out.
Lizzy, you might not.
I have n't figured out mine yet.
You 're a scientist.
I'm a scientist.
Liz, that's a pretty poor showing for a scientist.
Ma, are you kidding ?
Look how many days you go into the lab.
I know.
Look what I 've published.
One paper.
So who cares about publishing.
Well that's what
otherwise, I'm cooking
and nobody's eating it.
it's recycling
it's it's working that nobody ever knows about.
That's not what defines me as a person.
What defines me as a person is my family.
And your failure daughter.
That's what I'm feeling sad about at the moment.
I'm not going to be able to figure out what I want to do.
I just did n't know.
I thought this might be interesting okay.
and maybe
That's fine.
I do n't
that's not my big worry about you Liz.
But it's mine.
And I feel like I did n't know what to do
and then I feel like I took it
and now I feel like it's a mistake
and now I
Well I'm telling you
I'm telling you it's hormonal.
It's not rational.
what to do.
You do n't just all of a su-
the heavens do n't open up as Gib wrote
and all of a sudden you know just what you 're going to do.
If you define yourself that way----you 're looking for trouble.
But I just feel like I'm--You 're opening yoursel---**putty-duddying** around for the rest of my life.
And like I do n't have any specific skills or body of knowledge.
I'm just sort of this blob.
Lizzy
Lizzy the mo-
Lizzy Daddy feels that way too.
He feels he does n't know anything.
Everybody feels that way.
You just have to get used to that.
You want to count your degrees ?
You want to count the courses you 've had ?
You want to count the work you 've done the jobs you 've had ?
That's nonsense.
I do n't know.
Like maybe if I were a teacher Everybody always you know and I taught say health, science and art, then I would sort of get this body of knowledge that I would have and this--Lizzy--structure to it.
And then I yeah, yeah. Lizzy, Lizzy give it
Lizzy, that's a dream.
It never happens.
And I can tell you people at all levels
The only people who really think they know something are the people who usually are deficient.
When you do n't know how mu-
But there's people who have a specific set of skills.
I do n't even feel like I have that sometimes, you know.
It's a-
what they have to offer.
I do n't have anything to offer.
yeah
because you ca n't %um
%eh Lizzy Lizzy everybody feels that way who's worth his salt.
Do you know that ?
Is what ?