yeah
until like you find something that is n't stressful and not boring.
yeah
that's the main two combinations right ?
yeah.
Not stressful and not boring
yeah.
Well it's like I have no problems with secretarial work
okay that's what fitted in to that category because if you are a busy enough secretary you know %eh %mm. you do n't get bored because you are always doing something different
and if your employer is a relatively decent human being you know two if's there
mhm.
but you get no respect
I mean oh you 're a secretary
and the pay is pretty crummy
well it's pretty much the same as what I'm getting you know %um depending upon where you work and all
but you know it's like that's no answer either
so I 've just been toying with this idea of going back to school and getting a computer science degree so I can always be gainfully employed.
But anyway,
and you can think about that pregnancy thing
oh yeah
that pregnancy thing
yeah
that
do the
Maybe there's your hormones calling.
yeah
well no
the funny thing is it's like ten years ago I would 've said oh yeah that was what I really wanted to be doing is having a baby you know
but like at this point in time it's kind of like we 're going to do it because if we do n't do it %uh %eh you know in the next year or two we 'd regret it you know
we figure it's something we 'd want to do
it's not like we 're doing it because we have to do it or there's peer pressure
or well a %mm little peer pressure
oh no no no
I know exactly where you 're at because I think about that too
I got about like six or seven years
I figure my body is a very slow %um yeah **maturer**
you know what I mean
like I did n't get my period until I was sixteen
I mean I look like about %uh %uh at least five or six years younger than I actually am
--and I'm just starting to get my period actually now--yeah yeah as an adult.
So I kind of figure well I'm probably good until at least some time in the early forties
and I could probably go a little longer than that
I know there's a risk and all that bullshit
yeah.
but %um yeah I think about that too because it's like I mean I kind of like the way things are going in the total lack of responsibility.
I know
well I mean that's the thing
kids are cute and all that
and we %mm slept until noon
we got up about ten and was like oh we have to get out of bed played with the cats fell back to sleep
okay I mean we 're talking total slackers
%mm
and I thought gee you know if we had a kid we could n't do this you know
and
%mm
No
you got to be focused on that
and I mean there's a lots of other things that
I mean as far as like living situation I was feeling kind of settled you know like--Right. I'm not going to be like traipsing around
but I mean I could say that for the next five or even eight or maybe--yeah.--ten years alright
even if I could project that far which I really ca n't
yeah
but I mean you got a kid you ca n't do fucking ten years w---
I know.
--it's like cool I think I 'll go off to the Orient and start like bouncing from country country.
I know
well and I mean okay Emory wants to get his doctorate
so we 'll know next Spring if he can get at least accepted into the program which hopefully--%mm.--you know
and then there's four or five years doing the damn work
and %mm. He's crazy
he wants it
that's fine
he can do it
no problem
but %um that sort of ties us up here although we like the place
we 're in no hurry to leave it
yeah.
and that would be good
But then you know what if he could get a position overseas again which is something both of us have said would be pretty darn good because--%mm.--%um you know after coming back from Spain from those two and half years it was n't so much an adjustment to the way things were
it's just asking the question gee do we really like %um the way things are over here with the lifestyle the nine to five kind of thing
I mean I'm really in the nine to five thing more so than he is
you know he should be there by oh oh well let's say eight thirty to nine
but yeah
he does n't care when
well okay
%um and his professor is obviously %uh %uh a great person to work for
so I'm envious
but %um whatever
you know I'm caught up %mm.--in it
and I do n't like it you know
too many days I'm working and eating at my desk at about twelve o'clock
and I'm thinking %mm. This is crazy you know
in Spain %uh we had this break
and you sat
you talked to people you know
you enjoyed your food
you relaxed--%mm.--you know
and it's a fairly productive nation right you know
What's going on here ?
yeah
I mean they both have the advantages and disadvantages
what you have to do is concentrate on the advantages in what ever place you 're in--mhm--and think about the disadvantages of the place that you 're not in.
yeah
Otherwise you go nuts right ?
That's true,
yeah.
yeah.
I know Laura tried to
%uh because we have email and so she sent me a letter back saying you know remember how crowded the transportation is and %uh what else--%mm. how expensive everything is
and %uh you know I remember those things of course you know--
And work you know possibilities were a lot more limited
True.
and the language you know yeah. constantly like kind of
like I mean those could be considered positive things as well
yeah
but I mean you mind as well think of them in a negative vie-rather than
mhm sure
They just like worrying over them.
Well you know and that's why it helps to have kind of a glimpse into the future right ?
And that's how we got to--%mm.--Spain in the first place is we said we wanted to live abroad and we would try to do it you know as teachers
and it turned out that way because--%mm.--we had this idea of
and I really feel that that's important
and so what I'm having an idea of now is
okay you know Emory works on his doctorate
it takes about five or six years
we have the kid probably
he gets a research position somewhere in France or in Spain %um
and then we move over there
and you know I take care of the kid and do some you know little day labor whatever you know
we 'll see
%mm.
%um and we have relatively mellow life for who knows five or ten years
and then we take it from there.
yeah
because even like you know I mean all that stuff right is all so subject to whatever change in the weather that happens to be right ?
mhm.
oh I know
I know
and it's like you know what I think because I get the same as you
like some days it's just kind of like you know what the hell am I doing not with my life but ge-
but I mean just like where do I get the animal just you know to do anything you know
I just lay in bed and dream for the whole day easily
yeah
I know.
Well I know
I know what you 're saying
I feel there's sort of a line to cross too between really planning it out and worry and stressing over it because for a while a couple months back there I was thinking in terms of oh gosh you know can we ever afford a house
%mm.
and then we sat down and sort of looked at it financially and said is this what we really want to be worrying about right now
and you know I realize no
yeah absolutely.
and so you know you can sort of focus too much on the future
or I know I have this tendency to do that.
And miss the present completely
I mean miss like you know the smell of the goddamn onions frying in the pan yeah. yeah yeah. you know and each little
I mean it's like as far as I'm concerned there's like no pleasure that's as intense as the one that you are experiencing at that moment you know
you can think about what something might be like or reminisce about the past
but like when you 're there in that moment it's
I mean everything else just kind of like
it's almost like time does n't exist. yeah. You know
yeah
Well I know one of the best moments I can recall in these past two months is
okay I get to work a little bit late which is common
and they do n't really care since I'm an hourly you know
you have to be within a certain time frame
%mm.
and so everyone else is parked.
I'm way out there in the parking lot closer to where the trees are
and you know I close the door
I just take a deep breath as I go okay another day
and I hear the birds singing--
yeah.
and I just stop for a minute and listen to the birds
and it sort of cheers me up
you know I realize what a minute okay
in that nasty sterile office where the windows do n't even open--
%eh %um I will be for the next eight hours or so
but out here there still is some life going on
and just sort of cheers me up to know that
okay
I can come back to it you know
So that's
yeah
in that moment I mean nobody is going to like interfere with that at all.
There you are you and the birds you know
yeah
yeah
yup
hey we can find good Spanish wine over here speaking of the moment you know
oh yeah
And every once in a while you know I can remember just being back %um with people or eating some place you know in Barcelona
and %uh so it brings me back
but
I still have n't gone to that fresh French restaurant by your house
%um
I'm like dying to go there
You mean the one right next to the apartment
yeah yeah yeah
Well it's not French
it's just gourmet
it's gourmet catalon--
oh it's not
oh I thought it was Fre-
%ah really
yeah yeah
Well even better.
save it for a special occasion you know
and you know you might need a reservation too
yeah %um
yeah
I will
I should have some visitors
and my family's planning on coming this summer
so I 'll take them there and this fondue place I wanted to take them to also.
yeah yeah
Is the one over in Gracia that
it's kind of on a corner I think
I think I
%uh
no
there's a couple places in Gracia that I 've been going to
uh-huh.
But %uh there's one in the %um Bario Gottigo
actually it's on the other side of Leotana %huh. Like down over by the Bornillo
okay.
And I 've only eaten there once alright
but I 've been in a million times because every time I pass with somebody I have to show them the place.
uh-huh.
Actually you know I know where I'm going to go
I have a friend my friend from England
I do n't remember if I told you about her
she's my old %um roommate mhm. From Oviato
and she's coming
she got a job down here
she's coming on Friday to live
mhm
And %ah I
this is like the perfect
because when we lived in Oviato we used to go to this fondue place all the time
that would be the perfect place to take her when she gets her.
yeah
yeah
well I'm glad to hear that you got a job that you like and %uh %um think that you were able to stay
I was a little bit worried at first you know when you got back there because the money would run out probably in April or so
and you know
yeah
And I mean I knew I would get a job
and after I just stopped thinking about it I just thought well fuck it
I am going
it's like inevitable
and I want something
I have to get something
and I will
uh-huh
%um %huh
But I just thought that you know I 'll get a job
and at this point if I get desperate I 'll just have to take anything
yeah.
And the fact that I like kind of fell into something that's Fairly sweet
I mean %eh in the beginning everything kind of starts out nice
but I'm changing my attitude to the point where I'm not going to get stressed out about it too much.
I'm not going to try to change anything
Good
I'm going to go in there
I'm going to do a nice job
I'm going to have a good time uh-huh. you know
and I'm not going to
I mean it's not the same
I'm either
like from working with kids
I mean that was like you know my career for like eight years
mhm.
But this is you know more like
it's nice
it's really nice
Well and you can always go back to that if you wanted to you know working at least in the States
or maybe eventually once you have your residency yeah you can work in some place in Spain too with l-%ah
yeah
yeah,
I do n't have a big draw for it right now
if anything like I 've always wanted to have like a bar or a restaurant
I mean it takes tons of money
yeah
yeah
me too
well
well
But like I 'd love to
That's why I want to win the lottery first though Or to have enough background money to set that kind of thing up
but %um well
yeah
well %um good
and so you 're probably not going to come back Christmas which is cool
Emory was telling me that
so
yeah
and I probably wo n't