Rejoice, people of Islam.
The toughest of your soldiers against the Antichrist have returned to the truth.
-LRB-Sons of Tamim.-RRB-
Al-Musta'in Billah
In the past, an Arab poet praised this tribe which humbled the thrones of the Persians and defeated their soldiers and their elephants.
Its leader, al-Ahnaf ibn Qays-LRB-may Allah be pleased with him-RRB-, chased their king until he was killed, exiled and homeless.
If the sons of Tamim were angry with you........... you would think that all the people were angry.
This is only because the sons of this tribe kept their pledge, were loyal, and were steadfast in confrontation and tough on the enemy.
The Messenger of God-LRB-may God bless him and grant him salvation-RRB-, said about them that they are his people.
The alms of our people come from them-LRB-meaning the alms of the sons of Tamim-RRB-narrated by Muslim.
The truthful one and the one proved to be true-LRB-God bless him and grant him salvation-RRB-, said about them : " They are the toughest among my nation in battle.
-LRB-They are the toughest of my nation against the Antichrist.-RRB-
The people of Tamim in Iraq and a large part of al-Ahwaz have returned from the journey of Rafidite Safavid pride.
This is because those for whom a happy ending has already been decreed by God in the written book and to whom the good tidings of this came in the language of the faithful one of the heavens and the earth-LRB-God's blessings on him-RRB-was not to be left by God in the mire of deviation and the valleys of disobedience.
From the heart I am telling you, sons of Tamim, children of al-Hamayil, al-Butama, al-Shirman, children of al-Kanan, people of Basra, al-Ahnaf, the great Abu al-Khasib, you swords of glory and soldiers of faith and people of Muhammad-LRB-may he have God's blessing and peace-RRB-:
Rejoice and be hopeful.
God will really not forsake those who support His religion.
Your sale will be profitable, as will be that of Muhammad, Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman, Ali, al-Qaqa, Zahra ibn al-Huwayah, Ibn al-Mubarak, al-Darimi, al-Nisa'i, Abu Yala, and those in the forefront.
Sons of Tamim, the cry of glory will always resound, striking terror in the adherents of Mazdaism, the sons of whores and group pleasures.
God is Great !
God is Great !
And I am the brother of Daaaaarim.
After me there will be people with the nickname al-Rafida who reject Islam and reject it.
Their mark is that there is no Friday prayer and no congregational prayer.
Let whoever encounters them fight them because they are polytheists.
Al-Tarid
They deserve this...
For your information there is a large portion of them in the Kingdom... and an area named after them... which is Hawtat Bani Tamim..
Among them are venerable sheikhs such as Muhammad bin Abd al-Wahhab and Ibn Uthaymin
shary.
maserdy@hotmail.com