Today on the Mesopotamia channel they brought the photo of Saddam in the coffin before burial The coast of Jeddah
The photo of Saddam minutes before the burial was clear.
It was as we know him, except that his face was whiter than it was during the trial...
The person who lifted the cover off his face kissed him-LRB-may God have mercy on him-RRB-.
My regards.
No matter how much we may disagree civility remains between us.
Peppermint
May God have mercy on him..
Thank you, brother.
The Coast of Jeddah.
The Shiites are the people of the House..
Yes, but it is the-LRB-White-RRB-House..
May every Bairam come and your scandals be abundant, if God wills.
n33na33@hotmail.com.
I am the Arab
I hope one of the members can bring us this photo.
-----------
A free pen
ana_free11@hotmail.com
Concern destroys the stout with wasting away *** and it makes white the forelock of the lad and makes him decrepit.
-LRB-In this user he writes I am the Arab, free pen, and other men and women-RRB-
ana_alaraby@hotmail.com.
Al-Wabal
His affair is with God who is the wisest of judges.
Are we responsible for whether Saddam is among the people of Heaven or Hell ??
Why are we not preoccupied with ourselves and present for them before death befalls us and we are unaware of what awaits us afterwards !!?
What should be mentioned are the good deeds of our deceased Muslims only.
We should not utter the profession of faith for anyone who we felt friendly towards or who we sympathized with.
Let us not forget the uncle of the Prophet-LRB-may God bless him and grant him salvation-RRB-, Abu Talib, and his death in unbelief.
The Prophet eagerly desired that his final deed would be to say " there is no God but Allah, " but Almighty God guides whoever He wishes.
Oh God, we ask you for a good end.
Death suffices for a preacher.
Jawa
God is glorious.
Emotion is still the thing that moves us away from the facts of the religion by necessity..
We are not saying that Saddam is among the martyrs who are worthy of honors.. and we are not saying that he has not been pardoned..
Who is it that makes oaths about God !
But the man has attained what he reached..
It is nonsense to occupy this place by narrating honors and projecting heroism for a mere emotional situation imposed by the circumstances of his execution.
It is bigger and more serious than this..
I do not belittle the circumstances and the meaning of the event, and I do not forbid you or myself from discussing it..
But : we have to seek the ruling of the requirements of faith and refer things to God and His Prophet in every incident and situation so our positions are as well-established as our established facts..
May God bless you.
God suffices for us and He is the best one to trust.
The coast of Jeddah
No matter how much we may disagree civility remains between us.
The coast of Jeddah
Where is the emotion, brother Wabil ?
And you, Jawa ?
You are bringing this speech from where ?
Who said that he is among the people of Heaven or among the people of Hell ?
Really, just eloquence, and join the people, blonde.
My Regards.
No matter how much we may disagree civility remains between us.