A Word of Truth from Mahathir : " The Execution of Saddam is Public Murder. "
Shakir al-Maarouf
AbridgedThe Diary of Islam :
The former Malaysian prime minister, Mahathir Mohamad, considered " the execution of the former Iraqi president Saddam Hussein a public murder. "
He condemned the broadcasting of the execution to the world, describing it as " a travesty of justice. "
In a statement published by the Malaysian news agency Bernama, Mahathir said that " the execution was decided by war criminals-LRB-the American President George Bush and the British prime minister, Tony Blair-RRB-. "
Mahathir, who was a member of the International Committee for the Defense of Saddam, added that the broadcasting of the execution " intended to demonstrate the imperialist power of the United States ".
It was a warning to peace supporters that they had to either prostrate themselves before the orders of the Bush Administration or face the penalties of execution without a legal trial.
The prominent Malaysian official went on to say that the execution was a travesty of justice as " the defense lawyer was brutally murdered, the witnesses threatened and the judges stepped down because of their integrity and were replaced with collaborating judges. "
" Nevertheless they told us that the invasion of Iraq was aimed at strengthening democracy, freedom and justice. "
Mahathir was violently opposed to the occupation which the United States led against Iraq in 2003 when he was Malaysia's prime minister.
He also demanded several times that Bush and Blair be tried for their crimes.
http:www.almokhtsar.comhtmlnews1413265370.php
=== Comment ===
If only you were one of the rulers of the Gulf states, Mahathir, those that facilitated for America-foolishly and stupidly-the mission of invading Iraq. And extended a helping hand to it to destroy its infrastructure, its economic system, its regime and community life.
The Angry North
The statements of this man since he was in his post, were strong and clear, containing neither fear nor sycophancy.
How I wish Moslem leaders had his courage and his sense of zeal.
My brother, the oppressors have gone too far... so Jihad and sacrifice have become a right
Saleh al-Musannad
Even the one we thought was foolish announced mourning on Sadam's death.
Please visit the al-Falaq site just by clicking on the slogan www.alfalaq.com
To write to us : alfalaq@hotmail.com
Mujahed 2005
To raise everything if omissions have been made mua4000@hotmail.com