Faisal Al Qassem, Al Jazeera Channel presenter : I did not think Iran was that impetuous ?@@@...
Shanar Bin Amer
I did not think Iran was that impetuous ?
Dr. Faisal Al Qassem How foolish we were in our look to Iran.
Iranian politicians were to many of us an example of rationality, wisdom, wit, discipline, calmness, and, above all, premeditation, deliberation, and a lack of hastiness into impetuous action that is not deliberated, especially as they are the inventers of chess, the game of the smart, the witty, and the strategic planners.
It has been known about the Persian mentality that it is innately patient, as is obvious with the makers of the famous Persian carpets.
They are very patient and enduring.
They wait years and years and do not get bored, so that they may weave, with thread and needle, a wonderful Persian carpet, full of adornments, accurate details, and charming lovely figures, while Arabs tend to get bored fast.
But I do not know where those historic characteristics of chess suddenly evaporated in Iranian policy, when the governing organization in Tehran blessed the deed of its agents in Iraq to execute the deceased Iraqi President, Saddam Hussein, on the first day of the holy Eid Al Adha, mutilating his body, swearing and calling him names with profanity while he was on the gallows rope, when Saddam himself had ordered the Iraqi media after the death of Khomeini, to use the phrase " May god have mercy on him. "
Admirers of Iranian wisdom did not believe this fatal lapse of Iranian politicians and their followers.
Some might forgive Iran for its yearning to see Saddam Hussein hanged, as a type of retaliation and revenge, especially as it had fought him for eight long years, in which it suffered hundreds of thousands of souls and extreme losses.
But no doubt, since it is strengthening its grip on Al Hakeem, Al Maliki, Al Sadr, and Al Jaafari, who are holding the neck of an injured Iraq, it could have picked another more wise and less damaging time, for itself and for Muslims in general, to retaliate against its old rival, rather than committing a terrible deed that Arabs, and even all Sunnis, would not forgive it for tens of years, hanging him on what is a holy day for the utmost majority of Muslims.
I do not know how Iran fell in that dangerous trap, even if it were an evil American one, as it is known about Iranians that they are smarter than to fall into American traps, no matter how cleverly and wittingly they are set.
But they fell this time, a terrible fall.
If I were in the place of the wise ones of Iran, I would hang the Iranian politicians who blessed the execution of President Saddam Hussein on the day of the holy Eid Al Adha.
And I hope no one is overnice and says the execution was totally an Iraqi internal affair, because this blatant joke can not even be passed on school students or the mentally retarded.
We all know that Iran can just hint to Abd Al Aziz Al Hakim, who wanted to compensate it with a hundred billion dollars from the aliment of the Iraqi people for its war with Iraq, or to the fascist militia leaders like the Sadr militia, which implemented the execution judgment with the recognition of the Iraqi government, to postpone the hanging, especially as the Americans had confirmed that they were against the execution on the holy day.
We did not hear an Iranian denial of the American announcements about the execution.
Even if the American ambassador in Iraq is a liar and wants to create division between the Shiites and the Sunnis that would have terrible repercussions, the Iranians could have prevented the implementation of the judgment on the first day of Eid Al Adha, in order to avoid the dangerous repercussions for which they will pay the price for tens of years, and in order to pull the carpet from beneath some of the Arab regimes which they now accuse of provocation against the Shiites.
How strange the situation of the Iranians really is.
On one hand, they barbarically offend the feelings of more than eighty-five percent of the world's Muslims, the Sunnis, and on the other hand, they accuse some Islamic countries of sectarian provocation against Iran, as the Iranians and their allies in the region complain that there are obvious attempts to wedge and create division between the Shiites and the Sunnis on the part of America, Israel, and some Arabs.
This might be totally true,
but if Iran does not really want to inflame grudges between the Shiites and the Sunnis and seeks to unite the Islamic front and prevent its penetration on the part of the Zionists and Americans, as it claims, why did it give the green light to its agents and militias in Iraq to execute Saddam Hussein on Eid Al Adha and provide justifications on a golden plate for those who want to break down Muslims on a sectarian basis ?
The story of Iran is similar to the story of the one who beat me and cried, and preceded me and complained.
Do the Iranians have the right to complain about Sunni provocation against them, if they are the ones who started it ?
Is n't the one who starts it more unjust ?
Has n't the provocation against Iran become justified after the shameful Adha deed ?
Saddam might be to the Iranians the devil himself, but do they know that they turned him, in the eyes of Arabs and Sunnis, into a virtuous saint ?
Even some Kuwaitis forgave him and had sympathy for him.
Everyone forgave Saddam for all his faults, thanks to Iranian " wisdom. "
If the betrayed Iraqi President knew how he had become in the eyes of the Islamic world after his execution, he might have weighed for the Iranians and their agents in Iraq tons of praise and commendation for the great favor they did for him, of which he had never dreamed.
It reached the level that even his old objectors compared the execution of Saddam Hussein to the assassination of our master, Omar Ibn Al Khattab, at the hands of Abi Luluah Al Majusi.
No, many even declared that his grave will become a holy shrine.
If Saddam was left for ten more years, the man might have died naturally without any ado.
But now that Iran and its agents have executed him in this horrible way, he has entered history by its widest doors, after he had exited history years ago.
This was thanks to the " terrible " Persian " wisdom. "
Saddam Hussein was one with the utmost hatred and enmity to the Persians.
Maybe he used to pray a lot against them, and God accepted his prayers and inspired them to conspire in his execution on the Muslims ' big feast so Eid Al Adha would remain connected to his name for decades and decades.
I do not know how the Iranians measured it, and I do not know why they sacrificed their tremendous popularity in the Arab street in return for satisfying a cheap and impetuous desire for revenge.
A few months ago, Iran was a symbol of resistance, jihad, dignity, and challenge, thanks to its support of Arab resistance movements like Hezbollah in Lebanon and Hamas in Palestine, while the popularity of the Arab regimes was hitting rock bottom.
The Iranians had the right to be proud of the glorious victory Hezbollah achieved over Israel.
But now, this victory has totally evaporated in the Arab street, thanks to the stupidity of those who ordered the execution of Saddam Hussein and the dance over his body.
No, the public support for Hezbollah has even turned into a tremendous indignation from Iran and its allies in the Arab region.
I heard a lot of people connecting the Persian enemy and the Zionist enemy, while Iran, until months ago, was the striker in confronting the Zionist and American project in the region.
Iran caused great embarrassment for everyone who has supported its positions in the past.
I have heard from a lot of people who used to defend Iran in the Arab street, and they have totally turned against it and started to call it " dirty Persian " with a lot of loathing and hatred.
In recent months, Hezbollah's performance in the war with Israel, with Iranian President Ahmadinejad's announcements, speeches, challenge of the American administration, and his insistence on finishing the process of enriching uranium, used to resurrect pride and dignity in the souls of millions of Arabs and Muslims.
But the scene of Saddam's execution turned the tables upside down on Iran for a time that might last for long ; let alone the horrible offense to Hezbollah, which lost a big portion of the street.
The proof is that its biggest supporters in Jordan, for example, boycotted the Manar Channel, which used to have great popularity in the Arab street.
The Iranians, with their spirit of revenge, have destroyed the most famous Arab resistance movement, after it was filling the world and occupying the minds of humans.
They even turned the people against it.
No matter how the answers vary, as Mohamed Abu Roman debates, what is obvious is that the image of Saddam Hussein's execution would cost Iran a lot in the next stage.
It will make its credibility very weak, and it will also harm the image of its ally powers in various countries.
In addition, it revealed that the " Persian-national " spirit that tinctures Iran's foreign policy and its various positions, far from the claims of enmity to America and Israel, are only used to serve Iran's interests.
Beyond that, the image of executing Saddam and the repercussions it created cause a large embarrassment for Iran's allies in the region, like Hamas, Al Jihad, Syria, and many Islamic factions, as well as the political and public powers-in the Arab countries-which stood with Hezbollah and were calling for their governments to " change " their alliances to stand with Iran instead of the United States and Israel.
These powers face a state of strong embarrassment, similar to the embarrassment of the Arab regimes friendly with the United States from its policies in the region.
Those who wanted to quench their thirst for revenge by hanging Saddam Hussein on the first of the Adha holy days are like the libidinous fool who satisfied his cheap lust without knowing that he had caught a dangerous disease afterward.
What did they win ?