Bullying, from Cairo to Riyadh... facts and observations.
Al Khareq.
As an introduction to the topic, I will recount these two incidents for you :
1-In Al Sewedi district in Riyadh city, I stood in front of one of the mosques,
and I saw one of the Arab residents in a moment of astonishment while a car was leaving the place at a high speed.
When I asked him what had happened, he stated that three young men had stolen his cell phone and wallet.
I left the place to catch them, and get their license plate numbers.
They had to stop at one of the traffic signs, which gets crowded, and they did not notice that I was behind them.
I informed Operations of the incident, that they were in front of me at the time, and that there was a security patrol I had seen on the other side of the traffic sign.
But I was shocked when Operations told me, " Do not bother with them.
Go to the police department and report it. "
Oh people, the thieves are in front of me ; inform the patrols about them.
They told me, " It is none of your business. "
I told them, " I will not go to the police department.
This is their car number ; if you want them, chase them.
The car might be stolen. "
And I hung up out of oppression...
2-On the eastern ring road, three young men in a Lexus car caught my attention.
They were noticeably tense and confused.
On the same road, there was a search point.
I informed Operations, and I gave them the car number.
They said there was no report on the car.
I told them, " Inform the search point to check them. "
He said to me, " You want to teach us our job ? "
And they hung up.
After about an hour, Operations called me, and they said, " Brother, do you know where the car went, right or left ?
It turned out to be stolen. "
I laughed the laugh of the oppressed, and I said oh, oh, nation.
-------------------
This is a small part of what is happening now in Saudi Arabia, in general, and what is happening in Riyadh, in particular.
It reminds me of what used to happen in the city of Cairo.
The bullying, depredation, and theft.
But it is notable that the Egyptians strongly and very quickly eliminated this practice, and our Egyptian brothers treated the causes, the most important of which is strengthening the security agency and enforcing police members in the districts and street.
At the same time, they know that the continuation of such actions affect the reputation of the country, in case they continue ; they would eliminate trust in the internal security of the country.
Now, unfortunately, the bullying which was in Cairo moved to Riyadh, the capital, which has recently witnessed robberies, kidnappings, beatings.... etc.
And we are still only watching what is happening now ; the citizen still faces many problems and robberies.
The thief had some shyness before and fear of the security forces, but now, there is no fear.
They are not ashamed ; one of them steals in front of everyone and in the morning, even from a policeman, and this happened in fact.
The citizen now, these things which happen now have become normal to him.
He is used to them, because of the negligence of security members and their indifference to what is happening now, their lack of consideration for the complaints of people and their reports, and the insistence of security patrols that it is essential to go to the police departments to report any security violations, though most reports need quick and instant action.
And because of the complications happening now, the chaos about which we hear and see has prevailed.
Unfortunately, these things were weak in the beginning, but they have grown now and reached the level they reached because of security weakness and indecisiveness toward such issues, which have become a daily reality before our eyes.
They happen in our streets, homes, and cars.
If these shameful practices which are happening in our country are not treated decisively, we should expect bigger than them.
The citizen would be forced to own a weapon to protect himself, at the time when the security agencies failed to protect him...
I am talking here about what is happening in my surroundings and the surroundings of those close to me.
I saw what is happening with my own eyes, so what do you think of a big city like the city of Riyadh ?
You hardly enter a gathering or house without hearing horrible stories and tales, and the fear, the fear, is for Riyadh to become an example for criminality like the American city of Chicago...
So pay attention to your cell phone, wallets, houses, and cars, because the situation has become unbearable.
Some time ago, my car was stolen, and I reported it.
The officer said, " May God not offend you, but search for it with us. "
The funny thing is that I found it myself after only two days.
..
As for what is happening in the police departments, we find officers trying to reach reconciliations by all means, because they do not want to tire themselves with an investigation.
The one who commits assault and the victim are equal to him ; if the victim refuses reconciliation, he starts to procrastinate and draw the issue out.
As for the prosecution panel and the general investigation, they protect the gangs and individual criminals, per the system, as they release them from jail on bail without spending a night in it.
The utmost crisis is that the police departments know the locations of criminal gangs.
They know where robberies take place, but indifference spreads in their bodies.
In a short period, no more than a month, several of my relatives and friends were robbed.
One can measure based on that what is happening in the city of Riyadh...
1-stealing a cell phone in the Quds district,
2-stealing a cell phone in the Mecca Markets,
3-stealing a cell phone in Al Roda,
4-stealing a cell phone on the Hijaz road,
5-robbing one of our employees in the Markab district,
6-assault on a military officer, in his uniform, and taking his cell phone in the Markab district,
7-robbing the house of laborers we know and assaulting them,
8-assaulting a driver and stealing the car,
9-assaulting a store owner that I know in Mecca Market, and stealing the money he had,
10-stealing the tires of one of the neighbors,
11-robbing his driver's room.
The situation has become unbearable...
We are pleading for the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques and His Highness the Minister of the Interior, God protect them, to quickly intervene, to order the increase of the number of security members and security patrols, and to eliminate those practices that give a bad image to our country.
ama455@hotmail.com
Al Wahbi Abu Weshikar
The Ministry of Interior is sick and suffers mismanagement, with its corrupt and uneducated personnel, from top to bottom, in all its sectors.
He who has not, gives not.
The defect is in the officials in the sectors of the Interior, and then its failure in all cities and all sectors is the crisis.
All sectors suffer from a shortage of equipment and supplies, especially the police.
Unemployment is widespread in the society.
Why do n't they hire those young men to fill the shortage, especially when the King of the Ministry of the Interior, I mean, the Minister of the Interior, is the one who has been taking on the unemployment issue ?
Why does n't he hire and fill the shortage in his ministry ?
And why is n't the ministry financially supported ?
Imagine, until now, the police still use handwritten correspondence, written in the handwriting of preliminary and primary school graduates by its employees, let alone the low morale of the members, which reflects on their performance.
The citizen in my country will remain without value, inside and outside, unless he has a say in the hiring of officials and a role in holding them accountable.
Sami Al Jaber.
If public punishments are not applied, the situation will remain the same, and the rest will not be deterred.
-Yes, many are arrested, but where is the punishment ?
-LRB-He who feels secure from punishment misbehaves-RRB-.
Al Kharek
This is a case in which execution was applied among several cases in the Kingdom !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Why was execution not applied in similar cases ?
And why did the judges stop at imprisonment for a few years and beating for several rape cases in previous incidents ?
Riyadh-Saudi News Agency :
A capital punishment was carried out yesterday on a criminal in Barida city, for committing adultery in a number of incidents.
The following is the text of the Ministry of the Interior statement in this regard.
God Almighty said :-LRB-The punishment of those who wage war against God and His Messenger, and strive with might and main for mischief through the land is execution, or crucifixion, or the cutting off of hands and feet from opposite sides, or exile from the land.
That is their disgrace in this world ; a heavy punishment is theirs in the Hereafter.-RRB-
Ali Bin Mohamed Bin Hilan Al Harbi lured a number of underage children and raped them by force and against their will.
Thanks to God, the security authorities arrested the mentioned criminal.
Investigation with him led to accusations against him of the commission of his crime.
By referring him to the Public Tribunal, a judicial charter was issued convicting him of the act, and he was sentenced to be killed as a punishment.
The verdict was certified by the Court of Cassation and the permanent panel of the Supreme Judicial Council.
A supreme order was issued to implement the judicial decision against the criminal mentioned.
The death verdict was implemented against the criminal, Ali Bin Mohamed Bin Hilan Al Harbi, yesterday, Wednesday, 12271427 A. H. in the city of Barida in the Qussaim district.
By announcing this, the Ministry of the Interior is confirming the devotion of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques ' government, God protect him, to providing security, achieving justice, and implementing the principles of God against anyone who assaults the secure ones in their selves, honor, or money.
At the same time, it is a warning to anyone who considers doing this that judicial punishment will be his destiny.
God is the leader to the good path.
ama455@hotmail.com
Al Kharek
My brother, Al Kharek, peace, mercy, and the blessings of God be upon you 00.
You opened a subject on robberies, so we wanted to share in the devotion to God Almighty 0.
The strangest thing I read was your comment number five-LRB-5-RRB-, quoted from the newspaper. 00
In it, the writer mentions that the nation has advanced criminal equipment and trained cadres. 00
Fine, what is missing that led to the increase of all kinds of crime ?
If the reason is known, the result is clear. 0
The problem is not in the unavailability of Islamic legislative evidence upon which Islamic justice is based ; but rather in a reality in which you live and in which justice is excluded.
The judge 00 is not qualified for the judiciary and is not independent.
This is what deprives the judge of his legitimacy in judging, 0 as he follows the dictations of the prosecutor and others.
The judge receives bribes, recommendations, facilitations, and other things, which do not serve the judiciary, but show it is not independent and impartial. 00
This judiciary has remained like this for a long time.
The accused has been a victim between rivals, until, recently, outside pressure came to support the accused, which has enabled the lawyer.
The lawyer is qualified for positive constitutions that contradict Islamic legislation.
This caused the lawyer to use this golden opportunity to release the accused for large amounts of money, estimated at several million in the large criminal cases, which increased the drift of justice. 0
Some judges even quit the judicial profession and turned to legal practice, as he would be a master in the field, since he knows the skills of judges. 00
And we entered the market of crime from there. 0
As for crimes, they are many.
The biggest criminals are known from their looks.
Among them are the organized road robbers, the share robbers, the land and property robbers.
Even dead robbers have appeared, who steal dead bodies.
It is weird.
Thieves are immune to justice.
They even are the justice in our stinky time. 0
As for the agencies, they are developing, and I expect a day will come when the guard will be a thief and and and 00
By using a rational mind and transparent logic, young men who are unemployed, lost, and lazy, raised on the channels that feed and develop them for free, and have a masters degree from the international university of the lost, need a daily allowance of 50-70 to dress, eat, and travel around with a limousine, 10 per trip.
A southern guy gets lost in Riyadh.
They collect a thousand for him and tell him go look for a job ; 550 went to tickets, and fifty for the trip from the airport to Batha to rent a room in which to sleep, 100.
He wakes up, buys application files, and photocopies his identification.
He spreads them everywhere possible until they are hanging from the bridges.
His daily expenses are 50, with food and beverages, say 100.
He returns to the hotel to lie down, his face exhausted from the heat, the fatigue, the insults, the name calling, the expulsions, and the humiliation.
Then, he wakes up on his second day and lingers around his acquaintances, knowing that they despise him for his position, and they say, " We swear to God so-and-so has left, and you can do nothing but return to your home and come back next summer when the institutes open, " and and %pw and go.
I went back to the hotel, and he said give me a hundred.
I told him I do not have enough money to return.
I am broke, and I have nothing but my identification.
Take it as a guarantee.
I went back home as an unknown with a copy of the identification ; I spent a week on the road to pass, and all who saw me empty-pocketed said stop in your place.
And we returned after a week, having eaten the remaining pickings in restaurants until the Indians sent us away. 0
This is about the job. 00
As for the land, you either wait for 25 years if you are lucky and feed the belly of the Land Department Director with a sheep, honey, or something he considers good, in order to get it after twenty-five years of feeding him. 0
Or else you go to a planner who tells you that the selling starts on such-and-such date, and the price of a place, twenty by twenty, is 250000.
If you do not have it, pay 5000 as a down payment and pay the rest in installments of 3000 every month, with a total value, calculated by a Sudanese man, and who knows about his math, of 450000, for the heirs to pay.
And if you are an installment late, you have no right to anything.
I said, fine, let me see the land, so we went.
We found the land close to the relatives, and it was stolen from the group. 000
Then, our unemployed brother faced a look of inferiority from those around him.
He feels inferior and wanders around.
He meets a companion from the same path and the same suffering.
Here starts the thinking and the change of his compass.
When he sees the luxuries around him, he will move and think.
The door is open, the experiences are available, and the elimination of humiliation and takedown is available.
So he starts with a small theft, then a big one, then a variety. 000
If you look, who are actually Saudis ?
They are foreigners and Bangladeshis, in particular, who are assigned in their residency to their fathers, the big officials of the nation, in his mother's name and his father's name, and they were released in the market like a shark.
They took everything.
A Royal Decree was issued, called-LRB-the Reverse Decree-RRB-, which prohibits foreigners from working in vegetable sales.
The young people were happy.
They went to the market, and there he was the Bangladeshi controller.
There they were, like for the petroleum.
The Bangladeshi does not accept less than ten thousand a month. 00
We are in a night, Kharek, that has no morning.
Orders are neglected, the phoenix is burnt, misery prevails, and no one is responsible for anyone.
0.
Our unemployed brother is the small criminal, the lured one.
He is like the old saying would indicate,-LRB-If you have a penny, you are worth a penny ; if you do not have a penny, 00000 You know the rest.-RRB-00
This is reality, my dear Al Kharek.
I wish there was independent Islamic legislation in which no one interferes.
And I wish there were an impartial independent general prosecutor to represent national, intellectual, and Islamic security.
If this is achieved, security, prosperity, and freedom would be achieved, and the age of oppression would end.
Calls to prayer and no one hears you, so you wo n't upset your God, even if your back was beaten, and your money was taken.
00000
If nothing changes and we sleep and wake up on the Qassebi and Turki Al Ahmad roads,
and the corrupt gangs like them to whom the mission of Islam was handed 0.
0000
I swear to God, I get astonished, I thank God, and I say, thank You God, that there are still traits and values to praise. 00
And if you say something, say peaceful things, they are good, though their mentalities are unique and their wills are strong. 0
We are a people most intimidated should a missile or heavy 5-ton bombs fall near us.
Around it, we shall sink into the ground for a year, and then we come out worried.
Do not count on us as weapons, when we are cowards who learned in the schools of Al Walid Ibn Talal, Ibn Ibrahim, and full cream, Saleh.
This is our university, so do not blame us and do not count on us. 0
The weapon is a cartoon, and the aggression is at the door. 000
Would you explain to us our reality, that we live in this world, and who represents us inside and outside ? 0
Or else what we see is that we are performing a realistic play under commercial stickers of the Bouri and Khori council, who represents his pocket, his interests, and his position. 0
Living became a trade in livestock. 0
Explain to us, the people, what is the meaning of a people ? What is the meaning of gangs ? And what is the meaning of criminals ?
People are confused. 0
==============================
And thank you my brother, Al Kharek.
I hope to publish it if we can.
Maybe we can regain credibility of presentation and honesty in the message.
What we see today in the forum is nothing but fights between the Baseer Bahrani party and people who burn, hide, and mask.
Where are the words of truth ?
Whenever you see a criminal they have caught, you say punish him and, and, and, and, as if he is not a human who lives among us.
We feel for him, because he is the victim of big criminals of the %pw. 00
If he was backed up by a financial or incorporeal support, he would have been honest and would have been propagated as the most honest. 0
The country in reality is a Mafia country of all types and colors.
And the means of criminality were provided by our rational country, until the criminals became holders of scientific and mechanical degrees.
ama455@hotmail.com
Al Kharek
ama455@hotmail.com