Peres says : All Qataris Want Hamas.
Al-Wajba.
Al-Wajba salutes you and says : Passing by the Saudi airspace, Peres arrived in Qatar for a short visit to the Qatar Debates program with a special invitation since there will be a miniature democratic seminar to study and discuss a number of issues and the ways of tackling them...
The Doha Debates are considered to be a miniature source of democracy in a big oasis that gathers the Qataris in a unique mixture of intellectual openness to the world and awareness of all that is happening in an atmosphere removed from any twitching or nervousness in an attempt to solve issues in a totally calm way..
Qatar's reception for Shimon Peres came from this angle.. addressing the mind and conversing to create a solution for many pending matters and also to make the Qatari public in particular and the Arab public in general understand what takes place in a democratic atmosphere..
In Qatar there are many independent universities, both Arab and international, and there are branches of well established international universities.
The invitation was from the Doha Debates program..
This is a program that gathers together many intellectuals, scientists, heads of state, and others to discuss numerous topics with complete transparency and democracy..
I was hoping that the Doha Debates program would invite Prince Sultan to ask him about the weapons deal or al-Walid bin Talal to ask him about waste and the launching of the songs channels, or Luluah al-Faisal and her future ambitions..
Claiming power by being silent is something shameful for some countries as is deluding the people with their silence into thinking that they are powerful while in fact they are hiding their weakness.
I think that dialogue is neither a shame nor should it be rejected..
You talk to your enemy and discuss with him..
But the closed door policy.. this is a disaster for the people and a pretense that you are brave through a lying and trumpeting media while in the end you fail in the least confrontation..
Back to the main issue.. we say who is Peres ?
No one denies that Peres is a criminal.
But who is Peres ?
Peres received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1994.
He shared the prize with both Yasser Arafat and the Israeli Prime Minister at that time, Yitzhak Rabin.
Peres has a special interest in precision electronics.
In 1997, he established the " Peres Center for Peace. "
In other words, the man is looking for more peace than war.
There is a difference between holding discussions with a man of peace and holding discussions with a man looking for war..
Peres is also a man who received the Nobel Peace Prize jointly with Arafat..
Peres spent money establishing the Peres Center for Peace while Yasser Arafat spent money on his wife.
We have n't heard that he established any organization to support the Palestinian people with that money..
When he took office as Prime Minister Peres concluded successful transactions to acquire weapons.
He also sought to establish a deterrent nuclear program since Israel owns the biggest nuclear arsenal in the world.
All this was during his tenure.
This means that the man thinks and plans.
This is due to his knowledge and studies in his field of electronics..
Again we say that knowledge is a powerful weapon for any national progress..
Peres attained this as a result of.. knowledge and proficiency.. in his personality, which helped give him an edge in confronting any situation by putting him in a position of strength, and not weakness..
Conversely, we see the squandering of money on the other side for trivial things that do not serve the Palestinian cause and do not serve the Arabs and the Muslims.
We find numerous satellite channels financed by Islamic countries, and we also find numerous princes and kings and presidents who spend large amounts of money on their vacations.
We also find that most of the Arab people and some Gulf people live below the poverty line..
Furthermore, most of the presidents of the Arab and Gulf states do not have any high scientific degree or any sound plan to build a strong country at the scientific level..
They do not even have any interest in education or in establishing strong universities in the first place, except for Qatar.
Back to our topic.
Some of those who posted pictures in the forum did not mention the topic and did not refer to the reason for the visit.
They just posted the pictures and commented on the topic from their imagination..
His Highness the Prince receives the man of peace in Israel in an attempt to bring Hamas and Israel together.
All this in consultation with Hamas in Syria and Palestine so as to bring views closer..
I think that this approach of holding a meeting between Peres and Hamas without preliminary agreement by the leaders of Hamas basically holds no benefit for Qatar.
Al-Doha-Al-Rayah-Quna :
Yesterday morning His Highness Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani, the dearly beloved Prince of the country, received in his office in the government building, His Excellency Mr. Shimon Peres, the Israeli Deputy Prime Minister, on the occasion of his visit to the country at the invitation of the Doha Debates program.
The meeting was attended by His Excellency Mr. Ahmed bin Abdullah Aal Mahmoud, the Minister of state for Foreign Affairs, His Excellency Sheikh Abd al-Rahman bin Saud al-Thani, Head of the government building, and Ambassador Ali Fahd al-Hajiri, the Head of the European and American Affairs Department in the Foreign Ministry.
Peres admitted that his country lost the last war in Lebanon.
He said that this war was a loss for Israel from the point of view of many politicians.
In my point of view, every war is a loss because peace is the best option and is required in the coming period for all parties.
In a special episode of the Doha Debates program yesterday, he said that Israel tried to defend itself in the war which it launched against Lebanon recently.
He said that Israel did not have any ambitions there, and its aim was to deter Hezbollah.
He said that he considered the statement of former American President Jimmy Carter on Israel's oppression of the Palestinians a grave mistake, and he stressed that Carter should withdraw these opinions.
He said that Israel does not have a problem with Iran but they are against Ahmadinejad because of his desire to eradicate Israel.
Peres admitted his failure to achieve full peace and stressed that he regretted that, and he stressed his desire that Arabs and Israelis should live in peace and that the cycle of violence, destruction and murder of innocents should stop.
..
Without dialogue, how would you know the thought of your enemy ? How would you know his plan ? How would you discern whether he is a man who is looking for peace or the opposite ?
An image from the Doha Debates..
During the program Peres said that Israel lost the war in Lebanon,, and that their attack was only to deter Hezbollah..
In my opinion, every war is a loss because peace is the best choice, and is required in the coming period for all parties.
In a special episode of the Doha Debates program yesterday, he said that Israel tried to defend itself in the war it launched against Lebanon recently. And that Israel had no ambitions there and that its aim was to deter Hezbollah.
He said that he considered the statement of former American President Jimmy Carter about Israel's oppression of the Palestinians a grave mistake, and he stressed that Carter should retract these opinions.
He said that Israel does not have a problem with Iran but that they are against Ahmadinejad because of his desire to eradicate Israel.
Peres admitted his failure to achieve full peace, and stressed that he regretted that, and he stressed his desire that Arabs and Israelis should live in peace and that the cycle of violence, destruction and murdering of innocents would stop.
Peres's visit to the students ' hall so they could talk to him-LRB-as a man of peace-RRB-and not as a Jew or a war criminal.. that is something normal for any visiting official to be received by university officials.
I think that the picture is normal.
Discussion of the Arab-Israeli situation by the students in a unique democratic oasis in Qatar.
All sides are there.. debating, discussing, arguing in a democratic atmosphere difficult to see in any country..
I think, in my opinion, that if democracy in some of the neighboring countries is non-existent in the simplest matters related to their personal rights and the demand for them. Then how could they reach to the level of Qatar in gathering this huge number of intellectuals, politicians, and heads of state to discuss sensitive issues that concern the Arab World ?
After Qatar went beyond local democracy and human rights in the country.. praise God and many thanks to His Highness Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani, who established democracy and freedom in the country.. and made Qatar a platform for dialogue.. so the discussion took place in Qatar.
There was disagreement and agreement, and that is something normal as a result of the present atmosphere..
But on the other hand, we find different meetings without any outcome because of the lack of democratic basis for dialogue.
All that results from not accepting various opinions.
Conversely, as a result of the lack of freedom among the Arab people we find that it is America which is in the driver's seat and steers guests wherever it wants and takes them on tours without any questioning directed at it.
All this marginalizes the Arab individual as though he had no-LRB-mind-RRB-or-LRB-opinion-RRB-, and you find that the areas he is allowed to talk about are women driving in Saudi Arabia and similar useless topics..
I would like to explain something to the brothers : Peres's visit is an internal Qatari affair.
It was announced in the newspapers that Peres would visit Qatar, and it was announced in the three Qatari newspapers.
There are writers in Qatar who have positive opinions as well as negative opinions.
This difference is good and something through which nations and people progress.
That is what happened in the forum.
While he was leaving the hall, a student addressed Shimon Peres with the word " terrorist ".. " terrorist " in English, which caused the accompanying Qatari security to intervene to prevent him from continuing.
But the question now is : Who is better.. Peres or George Bush ?
How many did Peres kill and how many did Bush kill ?
Goodbye.
jassem1@hotmail.com
Fahd2000
If a people is hit in the face with a shoe ********* the shoe would cry out, " for what sin am I being hit ? "
This name is used by 17 people from three Gulf States !
For correspondence..
-LRB-i_am_s4udi@yahoo.com-RRB-
write to the email address and do n't copy it !
The jesting of the pen
Whaaaaaaaaaaat a shaaaaaaame.
The girls of Qatar shake hands with the dirty Jewish men ?
Grief for our Arabism.
Pictures published for the first time on the forum.
I have a comment coming next.
Starting from this date, the first ofal-Muharram1428 A. H. the identification was transferred to another writer.
The poor slave
Brother Jasim... may Allah guide him.
There are at least three defects in this exposition of yours.
First-lack of vision :
You describe the contemporary Qatari situation as just a legitimate quest for scientific and technological superiority..
If we could agree that we fall behind the Zionists and Americans in such fields... however the problem lies in ignoring all this clear evidence that the scientific project is nothing but a small misleading part of a campaign meant to change the Islamic Gulf and Qatari identity and to remove its established fixed principles in which they surpass everything that the Zionists and the Americans have.
How can you reconcile the will of scientific and technological progress.. and hosting the Asian Olympics or a military base or a Zionist politician or a program like the Doha Debates ?
So... the purely scientific and technological side can not justify what is happening in Qatar.
*****
Secondly, the contradiction of principle and the dominance of worldly interests.
In your article here, you justified the legitimacy of hosting Peres from the perspective of exchanging opinions, dialogue, and using intellect...
Would you have held the same position if a terrorist or a well-known criminal were hosted under the slogan of, the language of reason, friendly media dialogue, and openness to the other ?...
Would you accept it if your neighbor hosted someone who had attacked you ??
So... there are principles that must be adhered to..
The most important of them is supporting the truth and loyalty to Muslims even if it goes against narrow personal interests... and the relationship of Saudi Arabia with the Americans...
Despite my being convinced that it should be limited after the latter's aggression, it does not in any way reach the level of the relationship of Qatar with the Americans themselves.
-LRB-The tension in the relations with Saudi Arabia recently and the military base on the Qatari territory despite the state of peace in the region are evidence of that-RRB-...
So how come Qatar is now adding to this with intimate relations with those whose existence and history and reality are entirely connected to aggression against Muslims.. namely the Zionists !!?
A mistake can not be justified by committing a bigger mistake or proceeding further in it !!.
****
Thirdly, going overboard with freedom :
There is a kind of mania in the field of freedom that makes many people think that every freedom is commendable.. While giving free rein to freedom is a recipe for chaos and corruption.. even in the field of speech or science...
For example, there is no room for freedom in talking about God and His Prophet and His verses since it comes in the context of what brought the disbelievers to hell.
But we used to embark boldly with bold talkers..
There is no room for leaving the door wide open for discussing or teaching " science and technology " as the theory of development.. or the theories of Darwin.. or how to make bombs or liquor.. or the creeds of polytheism or excessiveness in regarding others as unbelievers.. or the sciences of judging with anything other than the revelations of God-LRB-except by the way of warning against them-RRB-..
So... imposing censorship and certain regulations on the work of educational and media institutions is not a matter for censure or a sign of backwardness... rather it might be a necessary and urgent requirement... especially if those in charge of theses institutions are non-Muslims.. or if the ones exposed are our younger generation and the treasures of our nation !!.
You might even be filled with admiration of the contradiction in attitudes when you see the " supporters of freedom " demanding the imposition of government censorship on courses in Koran memorization, charitable institutions, and the pulpits in some of our countries !!!!.
+++
What is happening in Qatar is a political and intellectual penetration in the countries of the region in every meaning of the word..
The danger they face is very serious...
Of course, those who want to penetrate us will not declare that...
Rather, they will hide their aims behind sweet words or promises of providing limited or imaginary benefits...
Otherwise, we would not be deceived by the trick...
For many Muslims today their priorities are confused...
So they weigh things without the guidance of God...
This is the real reason for our present situation.. not just because of scientific or technological backwardness.
-LRB-You will find the Jews and polytheists the ones most hostile to the believers-RRB-.
-LRB-God forbids you to turn in friendship to those who fought against you with regard to your religion and who drove you out of your homes and who helped others drive you out.
Those who turn to them are evildoers-RRB-.
There are four types of men :
The man who knows and knows that he knows.
He is a scholar, so ask him.
The man who knows but does not know that he knows.
He has forgotten, so remind him...
The man who does not know and knows that he does not know.
He is ignorant, so teach him...
And the man who does not know and does not know that he does not know.
He is a fool so reject him...
Abu Karam
I am a programmer and a computer systems analyst..
I took a course at the General Administration Institute in the field of computers and Qatari trainees attended the course with us..
What happened was that after two days those Qataris disappeared and I never saw them again..
I saw them a week later in the restaurant of the institute.
I asked them " I hope that nothing bad has happened. Where have you been ? you have n't attended with us.. "
They said,, The lecturer comes in, gives the lecture, and leaves but we do not understand anything even though he is an Egyptian Arab..
We decided to transfer to a course that is easier than this one in the field of administration.
The director of admissions understood our situation and accepted the transfer to a program in administration.
So why should we go back to Qatar without getting a degree ? "
But you, al-Wajba, are sitting here philosophizing, telling lies, and saying that you have an advanced educational system.
And by the way, there were also Omanis with us, and they completed the course normally with us..
In the first place, the course was in the C++ language, which is easy, but such is your education that maybe you do, even know anything about Access..
Anyone who heard you would say that you went into space or that you had separation surgery for Siamese twins..
I say God have mercy on Mazna.
Assistant 1
Shalom, al-Wajba... It is really you and not the Qatari people...
You are a rich meal for every enemy of the Arabs and Muslims...
Congratulations for having Peres, and shalom to you from Sharon whose health you pray for so he can finish off what remains of Hamas.
Shalom to you and to Peres, but do n't lie and say he came to you through Saudi airspace.
But you are excused since it seems that you do not know where he came from.
I do n't blame you if those who are greater than you do n't enter the American base......
It is enough that he reached you and you were careful about his security and comfort.
Here is this link.
It will be useful in situations like yours....
God bless the sheikh, the father whose hand was not polluted by the hand of the " man of peace " as you say, Peres, and remained honorable and dignified.
http:alsaha2.fares.netsahat?128@247.n9fpcUVKH9b.0@.3ba9b6f7
sul
That idea of the Saudi airspace is nice, but what is nicer than that is playing host to the democratic enemy in your land...
But my opinion is for you and the Qataris to discuss with him the issue of murdering innocent children and usurping the rights of others.
Or more clearly, you should ask him to explain to you how to hate your neighbors and maybe he would train you in usurping their rights or train you in killing and shedding blood...
The phrase " away from any prejudice " is also nice.
Do n't you have any feelings of group spirit, my friend ?
What the Jews are doing does not call for any prejudice or bias.
I believe what runs in your veins is not blood but cold water...
You justify this visit by this person, whose hands are stained with the blood of the Muslims, and you criticize the weapons deals.
This is normal.
These weapons are for defending ourselves against our enemy whom you receive with hugs and so on.. While those who you say are strong are strong indeed, but not with Peres.
They are strong and we wo n't invite them to our country to discuss their culture which we know and you know.
But you are weak, weaker than a fly.
Therefore you are feigning strength with the descendents of monkeys.
Why should we go that far ?
Previously, your foreign minister likened your small country to Israel.
What a bad comparison and what it was compared to !
You greatly admire the Peres's education and his academic degrees.
Who else other than you would admire that ?
He is your highest ideal...
If you were a Muslim, and had an atom of religion, you would not have written this article.
I grieve for myself while I am replying to you, but people like you will not be spared because you are a shame to Islam and Muslims.