Ten ways to build a flexible personality-LRB-not to be missed-RRB-.
Grinch
In the name of God the Compassionate, the Merciful.
Blessings and peace be upon the most noble of prophets and the messengers, our Lord Mohammed and on his family and all his companions.
Peace be upon you and the mercy and blessings of God.
I found a splendid subject during surfing the world of the Net.
I hope you like it.
It is called " Ten ways to build a flexible personality ".
What distinguishes us as people is the independent personality whether strong or weak, hesitant or fickle, balanced or extreme.
The building of a strong flexible personality is considered a personal journey in itself as it passes through a number of phases and stages, and is done through strengthening and building and refining.
I do not believe that one possesses a strong personality by nature, but one does possess the basics.
This is necessary because what comes later is the real basis for determining personality.
The American Psychological Association produced a guide called " The Way to Flexibility " aimed at building and reinforcing the flexible personality and training people wanting to attain such a personality easily.
Here are the most important of points for you :
1. The creation of social relationships : the establishing of good relations with members of the family or friends is considered to be a very important matter, as well as the acceptance of help and support from those who care about you because it acts to strengthen flexibility.
Many people also find that joining and entering civil and the other local groups that support the community helps them regain hope, and also helps other individuals in society.
2. Avoiding seeing crises as insurmountable problems : you might not be able to change the fact that annoying incidents happen but you can change the way you interpret them and your reaction to these incidents.
Try to see beyond the present and think that the future circumstances will be better.
Always put your confidence and your belief in a better tomorrow, this day will surely come.
3. Accept that change is part of life : you might not be able to achieve some of the aims because of certain circumstances but accept that the current situation and the fact that you can not change it may play a part in your acceptance of reality and pay attention to other projects in life.
Do not stand and cry over the ruins.
4. Move towards your goals, develop some realistic goals.
Do things systematically-even if it seems like small achievements, they are nevertheless some sort of steps on the way forward.
Instead of concentrating on tasks which seem unachievable, ask yourself : " What can I achieve today ? "
5. Take decisive steps : take decisive steps instead of withdrawing completely from problems and pressures and fleeing from them.
Decisive decisions will cut the doubt with confidence, strengthen your determination and make you tougher in dealing with the consequences and in benefiting from mistakes.
6. Look for opportunities to discover yourself : people are always discovering new things about themselves, they realize that they have matured in some way or other as a result of their previous experiences.
Most of the time people who have gone through harsh experiences say that they have gained from their experiences and have become better people, their personality has grown stronger and their feelings have grown stronger as well as their confidence in themselves.
7. Nurture the positive point of view in yourself : we are not asking you to become over-confident in yourself, proud and arrogant towards others, but that you become confident in your abilities to work and achieve.
Do not blame yourself too much because you will collapse at the slightest problem.
Keep things in perspective : even when you face very painful events, try to consider them an exhausting phase in the course of life, and that life is bigger and wider than this problem.
Avoid exaggerating events and problems, keep things in perspective so as to be able to overcome them easily.
Keep an optimistic frame of mind : even if the room for hope has faded in the eyes of many and you too, keep a positive frame of mind vis-à-vis the future, try to imagine what you want and not the problems that will hit you.
Take care of yourself : pay attention to your own needs and your feelings.
Take part in activities which you enjoy and in which you relax.
Practice sport regularly to obtain the physical benefit, maintain your mind and your nutrition and your health to guarantee that you reach the highest levels of personal flexibility.
The beloved Prophet, the best of blessings and peace be upon Him, said " Your self has a claim upon you. "
May God grant you success.
Grinch
It is said, " Do not be soft as to be squeezable, nor so hard as to be breakable "... that means the search for balanced flexibility.
Sweet Natured
You reminded me of a Hadith, that the prophet, peace and blessings be upon him, liked optimism.
I thank you very much, my dear, for your valuable subject.
Your brother Sweet Natured.
Carrier of the Gazelle
May God reward you for what you have written
Grinch
The precious dear Sweet Natured You are worthy of the name.
I thank you for posting and for being a good visitor.
Your comments and participation have greatly honored me.
May God reward you.
Grinch
May God reward the Carrier of the Gazelle for this good invocation.
By the way, I have been greatly honoured by your 1000th participation.
Grinch.
Always remember that your reply to my subject was participation number 1000.
I thank you because you are always first to do good.
Accept my love.
Carrier of the Gazelle.
The honor is mine, may God guard you from everything bad.
I wo n't forget this thing.
Good Willed
Thanks, and God's bless you.
Grinch
I thank you my pious brother, Good Willed
God's bless you and guide your steps to good, and God make you someone he is satisfied with and who is satisfied with him.
Accept my love.