Stay away from the sophisms of the Black Bat and read the opinion of Salman Al-Ouda on Saddam Hussein.
The Arabized Arabs
The well-known Sheikh Salman Al-Oadah in his fair talk about Saddam Hussein, his trial and execution in such a brutal manner, crossed the t's and dotted the i's. and put an end to the argument regarding the deeds of this man
Here is what the Sheikh said as quoted from his website Islam Today :--
Then His Excellency was asked about the execution of the former Iraqi president, Saddam Hussein
He responded that " he was greatly sympathized with by the Arabs and Moslems as his execution came at an outstanding time.
If it had been asked to chosen a time, he would not have found a better and more outstanding one than this one.
and he said that he was a Sunni Moslem from the community of Moslems and that he prounounced the Testimony of Truth at the last moment of his life.
So may God have mercy on him and may God's forgive us and him.
As it is said in the Hadith, whose last words in this world were ' There is no God but God ' will enter paradise.
He also quoted the hadith of Ibn Masud in Sahih al-Bukhari : " a man amongst you may do evil deeds till there is only a cubit between him and the Hell Fire, and then what has been written for him decides his behavior, and he starts doing deeds characteristic of the people of Paradise. ".
Then he added that Saddam was not tried by a legal or Sharia court but by a sectarian court.
http:www.islamtoday.netpenshow_articles_content.cfm?id=64&catid=195&artid=8476
This handle was passed to another person...
al_arabmsb@hotmail.com
The Windy
By God, it is with subjects such as these that you lose more than you gain.
" Thought is integrity and pompous rhetorical writing is vanity, so chose which ever you want "
The Revivalist Youth
......
The title is very bad
Salman Al-Oadah made a general statement that even the Black Bat himself agreed with.
But when the talk is about Saddam Hussein himself and his deeds-or rather say his crimes-no two people differ about him deserving liquidation and execution.
But we have to contemplate the way in which he was tried and the mechanism for carrying out the sentence and the interfering and controlling Rafida hand in this aspect so that he was only tried for his case against the Shia.
I acknowledge his manliness, his steadfastness and his courage in going to the gallows and his response to those around him.
I rejoiced greatly that he ended his life with stating the creed, but that does n't make me consider him a martyred hero, and his history bears witness to tyranny and injustice !!!
......
For speedy correspondence...
at the end of the night come prostration in prayer, and tears on both cheeks... cares are removed, and the feverish heart is eased..
fataalsahwah@hotmail.com.
The Arabized Arabs
Warm welcome to the brilliant man of letters, the loyal patriot and the genuine Arab, Rabie Al-Hail
May God make your days happy..
Thank you for passing by..
This handle was passed to another person..
al_arabmsb@hotmail.com
GS430
May God have mercy on " The Lion of the Nation ", the glorious Saddam Hussein.
God, do not make us nor any of our descendants, misguided or misguiding others.
The Arabized Arabs
The Jewel, thank you for this comprehensive and erudite reply...
The Windy
If only you would clarify how we lose more than we win with this subject.
Do you mean the profits and losses on the balance sheets of this world or the balance sheets of the next ?
For what I see and believe is that there is in what I said profit-by God's leave-in the two worlds.
Thank your for your obscure contribution..
This handle was passed to another person..
al_arabmsb@hotmail.com
Abul Atahiya
May God preserve Sheikh Salman Al Oadah
And may God preserve the two brothers-the Black Bat and the Arabized Arabs.
The disagreement in these matters continues and will not ruin the affection between friends, God willing
Each one of you has what he says supported by the arguments and statements of the scholars.
May God have mercy on Saddam Hussein and forgive us and him.
He has served the Sunnis with his death, may God have mercy on him, on that day and in that way, by showing the spite of those Magians.
Omar came and tore down the throne of Xerxes...
And spite remained the religion of the infidels.
http:aaa102.arabform.comfor correspondence
Abu Kabun
The Arabized Arabs
Are you putting the Bat side by side with the Rafida ???
If only you had acquired part of the characteristics of Abu Muaz Al-Khaledi... if you do n't know him, learn about him.
e60006e@hotmail.com
There is no God but God.
The Arabized Arabs
The Revivalist Youth..
The opinions of Al-Oadah's or the Bat about the crimes Saddam committed during his life do not concern me.
What concerns me is this enormous difference in the etiquette of the two men when talking about a man who has died and arrived at the afterlife..
See how polite Sheikh Salman is in his talk about Saddam following his execution ? And how he refrained from disparaging a man who ended his life bearing witness that there is no God but God, and how he left his judgement to God and quoted al-Bukhari then concluded his talk by praying for him for mercy and forgiveness ?
Compare those polite words arising from a heart beating with piety and righteousness and faith and the harsh statements of the Bat about Saddam after his death on which he kept insisting and whose arrogance prevented him from confessing to the repulsive and perilous error to which his arrogance and conceit had led him..
Here is revealed the difference between the scholars and the clowns
This handle has been passed to another person...
al_arabmsb@hotmail.com