Paqueta wants to finish Saad Al-Harthi-LRB-the butcher-RRB-in soccer and educationally.
Night Star
6 x 1 = 6
Paqueta
Away from the club colors and loyalties.. and striving for a explanation and clarification. So far I have not found a convincing explanation for two incidents involving one player, the star Saad Al-Harthi.
The first is the matter of his call up to the national team after he clearly excelled at his club, then being put aside by Mr. Paqueta, outside the formation, even on the benches in the stadium.
He did not play even as a reserve, nor was he unshackled and returned to complete his university studies of which less than two months are left.
Acquiring an education remains the most important, and is the weapon that covers the professional player, especially as Al-Harthi had postponed it more than once, all during his participation in the Saudi national team...!
So read on with me.
Article Six, clause three of the Professional Regulations stipulates.. that the professional player undertakes to continue his education and raise his cultural level
and what supports the need to look into Al-Harthi's return is that Mr. Paqueta already has six strikers beside Al-Harthi and all of them took part in the last two games...!
The second incident is the report raised by al-Masibih to His Highness the President of the Union about Al-Harthi's diligence and his readiness to represent the homeland, which raises a wider question mark about why this report concerned Al-Harthi alone ?
Has anything happened in the past that would contradict it ?
The answer from all the fans is, of course, no..!
Or is there someone who ordered that this report be submitted..?
What are his motives..?
I know for sure that someone will summarize everything I referred to above place it in the category of preferences.
And then I will not, will not care, as long as I want to transmit a fact that we are in great need of players who are skilled with their brains and their legs.
So liberate the minds of those with skilled legs so that we would enjoy a generation blessed with a civilization of progress and consciousness and awareness
Let us all repeat together with our hearts before our tongues " Long live the Green, long may it live "
From under the door--
His last title that stuck to him and which he retained is " FIFA international expert "
So what will he win from the title " the Legend of the Gulf " apart from proving the saying " not getting tired of titles " after the overwhelming public popularity ?
What a sad media that which reduced the meeting of our national team with Qatar to the confrontation of Al-Shlhoub with Khalfan..!*
The invisible reason behind Jasim's decisive victory in getting the " Legend of the Gulf " title is his insistence on thanking the eight media personalities who voted for him !*
A question occurs to me.
How come a player for whom voted 55 % of an awesome number of the public does not get the title, while a player with 45 % is given the title on the basis of no more than eight media personalities voting for him ?
How ?
Since the " one and only " media started criticizing the coach Paqueta heavily.. can we innocently ask here whether this media has become a " middleman " striving for Paqueta's dismissal and his return to their team..?
What supports it is the delay in their team contracting a coach..!
I found the novel-LRB-The Searcher and the Searched For-RRB-clearly in the tyrannical individualism of Al-Shlhoub and al-Qahtani.. and each of them searching for the other..!
The emblem of the leadership did not suite him-LRB-neither in form mor in content-RRB-*
Paqueta puts his earpiece in his ear and talks on the telephone throughout the match *
This can only have two explanations.
The first is the presence of a technical manager in the stands,-LRB-he was n't there-RRB-...!
The second is the presence of another person dictating to him while he executes..!!.
An article copied from the famous writer and the satellite TV voice of Nasr International, Mr. Khaled Al-Shaalan.
This is life as seen by states....
If it pleased someone for an hour, it made him unhappy for ages.
A Very Ordinary Native Country
Night Star, here is an advice for free : do not try and tire yourself with Khaled Al-Shaalan.
The man suffers from unnatural fanaticism and the problem is that there are those who support him.
If you scrutinized all his articles and his appearance on the channels and his transfer from one channel to another then you would know this man's disease.
Encouragement is a nice thing.
However fanaticism, the turning of facts on their head, the schadenfreude, the mockery and the lying and innumerable, uncountable issues are present in this sick person ;.
I advised you and it's your choice.
Saudi shares forum http:www.moltqaa.com.
Citiiiizen--