Abd al-Bari Atwan :-LRB-President Saddam-RRB-Great in His Life.. Great in His Martyrdom
Asad
1022007
This unprecedented Arab and international interest in the execution of Iraqi President Saddam Hussein and the barbaric way in which it was carried out, confirms the importance of the man, his prominent status, and his distinguished role in the history of the Arab region.
The American administration, who planned carefully for this event through experts in media and public relations, and its tools in Iraq and the inclinations of public opinion did not at all expect such an opposite result, which along with the destructive consequences that may result from it in the coming days have caught them by surprise.
Saddam Hussein proceeded to the gallows like a proud mountain, with head raised, standing upright, looking down at the insignificant things and insignificant people, believing in his creed and his Arabism, repeating slogans of pride and dignity, after he confirmed his faith.
He confirmed it by repeating verses from the noble Koran and the two testimonies.
He will be envied by all Arab leaders, both living and dead, for this honorable martyrdom, and this enormous love in the midst of hundreds of millions of Arabs and Muslims all over the different parts of the world.
Saddam Hussein was the only leader in the modern history of this nation who went to the guillotine because he was a patriot who refused occupation and surrender to the invasion, and chose resistance.
The only ones who preceded him in this honor were men like Umar al-Mukhtar and Yusuf al-Azma, by whose struggle the nation and its history were honored, and kept it for them in the records of pride and dignity.
They hastily executed him because they feared him even when he was behind bars, just as they will still fear him as a corpse hidden under the soil of the homeland, and comparisons between his time and their bloody and chaotic time always came in his favor, and the calls for his return to save Iraq from its crisis and the corrupt and malicious gang that governs it have become deafening to the ears of the occupation and its accomplices.
He embarrassed them and dwarfed them by standing as a spear in the prisoner's dock.
They were terrified by the penetrating looks of his eyes.
They were exposed by his patriotism and Arabism and his contempt for the odious sectarian divisions that they planted in their contaminated new Iraq.
So they decided to get rid of him with a confused and embarrassing hastiness.
Thanks to the technology of the mobile phone which enabled us to recognize the ugly face of the hateful sectarianism that is governing in America's Iraq.
This tape exposed the government of the Green Zone, and blew up all the plans for censorship and fraud by the experts of the American Intelligence service and their agents.
It presented us with the naked truth, without that being the intention of its owner.
He was right when he turned to them and said, " Are these your men ? " when they were directing insults at him while he was proceeding to the gallows in magnanimity and with self-respect, repeating the noble words, " and when the ignorant address them they say ' peace. ' "
Is it manliness to shout hateful sectarian slogans in front of a man who has never been sectarian, and the rope of the gallows is being wound around his neck, and his soul will go to its Creator in a few seconds ?
Are these the tolerant ethics of Islam ?
Are these the values of Arabism, decency, and pride ?
Are those the sons of the great Iraq which had always stood up against invaders throughout history and was a pillar of support for its nation and the causes of justice in the world as a whole ?
We are sorry, but not surprised, because some Arab governments objected only because the execution took place on the day of the feast of Bairam, as if the execution of this man would have been permissible and blessed on any other day.
We are sorry again because most of the Arab leaders hid in their palaces and none of them dared to speak even one word of protest out of fear of America.
We were stabbed twice, first when we watched an Arab leader being led to the gallows in accordance with sectarian justice which is spiteful and vengeful. And the second time when we did not see anyone among the club of leaders to which he belonged for more than 30 years object to his execution.
Maybe God wanted a good end for him, and a good reputation, when He induced one of them to record what America and the government of sects wanted to hide, by means of the video of the last moments, which created a historic turning point that will perhaps shape the history of the region, and the nature of events in it for decades to come.
Maybe God wanted to expose the series of lies of Muwaffaq al-Rabi the National Security Advisor in the government of occupation.-LRB-Where is that security ?-RRB-, who went out to the world saying that he, meaning President Saddam, was weak and collapsing while he was on his way to meet his God.
Then the tape comes along and shows us with sound and image that we are in front of a courageous lion, who refuses to wear the mask, just as he refused to take the tranquilizing pills they offered him.
Why the mask, and why the pills ?
The mask is for traitors and criminals who are ashamed of their treason or their crimes, and the tranquilizing pills are appropriate for those who can not face history because of their bad deeds.
The American administration committed a fatal mistake and revealed a major foolishness to be added to its many foolishnesses in Iraq when it executed this man, in a way for which it will pay a hefty price in the near future.
His survival would have benefited it much more than his execution if they understood politics as they should, because his survival could have been a card to threaten the sectarians and keep them as servants to them and their schemes, just as it could have been a bargaining chip for calming down the resistance and the broad Iraqi sector which supports it.
But they do not know anything except grudges, and they do not want anything other than inflicting more degradation on the Arabs and Muslims by his execution.
Perhaps the American administration will have succeeded in one thing only, intentionally and with planning or without it, namely, deepening the sectarian breach not only in Iraq but in the Islamic world as a whole.
It was not by coincidence that Nouri al-Maliki signed the decision to carry out the execution.
And it was also not a matter of coincidence that the task of carrying it out was assigned to spiteful sectarians as we have seen in the videotape.
Al-Talabani hid or fled, along with all those who participated in the project of the American occupation and gave it a legitimate cover, from the other sect.
This execution will deal a strong blow to all the efforts of national reconciliation.
It will lead to the escalation of attacks against the American forces and those cooperating with it.
It will pour more oil on the fire of the civil war that has already been kindled.
Those who carried out the death sentence do not want reconciliation or to maintain a unified Iraq.
Rather, they are working to blow it up ; tolerance, forgiveness, and patience are basic characteristics not found in those people.
Saddam had negative traits and positive traits, but he was not killed because of his negative traits, but rather because of his positive traits, which were his belief in Arab unity, resistance to the enemies of the nation, building an unprecedented industrial and educational foundation, and challenging America.
He chose resistance and rejected safe and luxurious exile.
The curse of Saddam will continue to chase them, chase the Americans, and chase his spiteful sectarian executioners.
Just as Al-Qaeda emerged from the womb of Israeli arrogance in Lebanon and American arrogance in Iraq, Saddam's Al-Qaeda will emerge from the womb of the degrading execution process.