Pendant of Soldier in Golan Since 1967 War Found
The Cold of the North
Gaza-Dunya al-Watan.
Students at schools of the Qisrin settlement found the pendant of a Syrian soldier south of the occupied Syrian Golan.
On the pendant was written the name of the soldier, Mahmoud bin Ali, and his military serial number M 16241.
He was a Muslim, and his blood type was A+.
The two students, Alexander Ghuliyandrin and Oleg Darutsigh, said that they were on a trip last Saturday morning when they reached a military fortification near Qisrin.
It was obvious that man's foot had not stepped on this place for a long time ago.
The two students entered the fortification where they found old medical equipment and a number of military helmets and a canteen, as well as a military pendant covered with mud and very dirty.
The two students took the pendant home with them and cleaned it and washed it.
They were surprised that it did not belong to an Israeli soldier because the writing on it was in Arabic and they did not understand anything that was written on it.
The two students took the pendant with them to school on Sunday and tried to consult the teacher to find out what was written on it.
It turned out that it belonged to a Syrian soldier whose name was Mahmoud bin Ali.
His military serial number was 16241, and the writing also indicated that he was a Muslim and his blood type was A+.
A senior officer in the Israeli army who fought in the Golan during the June War as well as in the October War, said that from the descriptions of the place and the fortification given by the two boys, they go back to the war of June 1967, because the Syrian army did not establish fortifications south of the Golan during the October War.
The officer added that the presence of the pendant in the place together with medicines and medical equipment indicates that the soldier was injured, and it is probable that his fate is still unknown to his family and relatives and no one knows what happened to him.
The strange thing is that the Arab and Syrian media are kept oblivious of these news stories which are concerned with the prisoners and soldiers lost in that war.