Celebration Shooting Turns Wedding Into a Funeral in Southern Gaza Strip
Asad
1202007
Gaza-UPI
The cheers and hails of happiness at a wedding in Khan Younes in the southern Gaza Strip turned into screams and moans of pain after one of the celebrators lost control of his weapon, from which a number of bullets were released that killed the groom's brother and hit three other relatives of his, turning the wedding into a funeral in moments.
A medical source at Nasser Hospital in Khan Younes told United Press International that Palestinian citizen Kamal Mohamed Al Bashiti-LRB-33 years old-RRB-died shortly after he was hit by a gunshot in the chest from an accidental shooting at his brother's wedding in Khan Younes.
Three other relatives of his were also injured in the accident, including two children.
Gaza Strip residents are suffering from the problem of aggravation from the weapons mess and security chaos resulting from the intense spread of weapons in the hands of security agency individuals and members of factions and families.
This is a common practice that claimed the lives of about 350 people last year, according to Palestinian human rights sources.
Mohamed Al Bashiti, 18-LRB-years old-RRB-, a relative of the victim, mentioned that while the young men were performing dances and popular dabke dances Thursday evening, and while they were in a state of intense rejoicing for the wedding of our relative, Majed Al Bashiti, one of the armed men lost control of his weapon, which he was trying to use to fire to celebrate and greet the groom.
The bullets went astray and hit a number of participants amid a state of panic and terror.
In moments, the wedding cheers turned into screams and the hitting of cheeks.
The participants of the party moved to Nasser Hospital, which lay hundreds of meters away from the site of the wedding.
The tragic news came after a little while : the death of the groom's brother, who works in one of the security agencies.
An elderly man said, " I asked them not to shoot and asked them for God's sake not to do it, but they persisted in it, until what happened happened.
A number of women suffered cases of fainting and shock after the tragic accident. "
Some Palestinians are used to shooting in the air during their celebrations, especially weddings, as an expression of their happiness, in spite of the repeated warnings the Ministry of Interior has launched to chase those who take part in this practice.
But the warnings were limited to announcements after each incident, without translating into actual procedure in reality.
A researcher at the Palestinian Center for Human Rights, Yasser Abd Al Ghafoor, said this is not the first time victims have fallen in similar incidents, noting that the rights organizations observed several incidents in which victims fell and injuries occurred during wedding and celebration gunfire, one of the common misuses of weapons in the Gaza Strip.
The city of Khan Younes had witnessed on the third of last July a similar incident, when the girl, Amani Al Raqab, died by a bullet that hit her by mistake from a revolver her brother was shooting off on his wedding day.