Hey, folks in Al-Qasim, is the news I heard true ?
Honestly, I did not believe it.
Nasri
I was talking to a young man from al-Qasim this afternoon on the Messenger,
and he gave me this news that hit me like a bolt of lightening.
He said : there is a women's coffee shop in Barida, and he gave me its name-" Jothun ".
What's going on, folks ?
A women's coffee shop, and where ! In Barida !
Anyways, I did not believe it.
I sat down in the evening to read a book, but I could n't.
" A women's coffee shop in Barida " just locked into my mind.
as if I could feel the sights of the Barida people on that coffee shop-LRB-with a disco-RRB-I sat imagining that coffee shop.
As soon as you think of that coffee shop, the modern means of doing something sinful comes to your mind-LRB-text messages-RRB-, sealed with the words-LRB-sin and spread it-RRB-.
I sat imagining that coffee shop in its place
I imagined the organization surrounding it,
I imagined the bearded ones speaking about women who came to sip cappuccinos,
Drinking that coffee is forbidden by its very name, as everything that is unknown is forbidden.
You will not find " mocca " you will find the Al-Rasini blend.
By God, please,-LRB-a male reciter of the Koran who blends coffee-RRB-, I mean, a male coffee blend.
What will they offer there ?
Will it be the Qasimi kalija fresh from the bakery to the table ?
Will fatit take the place of gateau and tiramisu ?
We will not find croissants, to be replaced by the same letter-LRB-" carath "-LSB-= leek-RSB-and hot bread-RRB-,
Will a bunch of be-socked and be-gloved ladies storm that place to report back to their husbands what is happening there ?
Will they volunteer to spread revivalist consciousness among the women-LRB-take your copy-RRB-made up of a bag containing books of horror stories + gloves + socks + the Virtues of Staying Home tape or the tape on Forbidden Acts in Shopping Malls,
And so you will not smell the scent of perfume there, perhaps the fragrance of agarwood and frankincense, and maybe henna, the make-up of the women from the revivalist movement
and given the hallucinations of the revivalist women about the Evil Eye, there is no objection to a young girl doing the rounds with a cup into which all present will spit because a girl who visited the place yesterday evening had developed a headache and minds veered towards the illness of the revivalist women-LRB-the Evil Eye-RRB-
Aaaaahhh, how I wish to be standing now in that place
If you were saved from the lion do n't start wishing to hunt it Mona Lisa
Praise be to God
..
This is a good deed from amongst my good deeds on the forum, that I made such creatures get out of here and shut the door behind them
do not forget this service of mine and do n't be afraid
I have forgiven you with a penalty clause
Thanks
Do not stare at the sun to find out its secrets, you might become blind
Invulnerable
It seems my transmitted reply angered you more, Nasri, because I can see you.. have responded twice, I do not know whether out of hallucinating or the foolish talk from Saturday and Sunday.
The blame is on the poster and it might have been a female, I mean, not a male.
Anyways, it does not bother me whether you get your head angry or content, as it is nearer to it all.
I liked the reply of No. 69, I asked it in the eighties and especially as the question was about you moving from one predicament to a lesser one.
We are waiting for the answer from you, Cafe Al-Rasini
Women are of two kinds : one who makes a home for the man and one that makes a man for the home, the second is greater.
hawawy100@hotmail.com
Nasri
My brother Salaam 88 : Thank you for the present,
Your present has been accepted.
My brother The Freedom : I did n't understand what you mean ?
My brother Abdullah : Thank you for gentle response.
My brother Numas My great respects for the al-Qasim people !
But constructive criticism even if satirical does not offend.
Do not be sensitive to this degree !
If you were saved from the lion do n't start wishing to hunt it
Mim
Nasri A simple question I swear I do n't mean anything... and I am not joking Are you a Sunni Moslem ??
-LRB-If you wish to answer me to my private email, you can do so-RRB-
--------------
Abu Mohammed.
Ready For the Forum
A word to the moderators... Do n't the people of this country, who have been badmouthed by this deviant, deserve respect from you ?
Do n't the members who belong to it deserve respect from you ?
Are n't the Islamic principles and religious precepts which this relapsed person has made fun of value to you ?
Moderators, you have disciplined, limited and deleted postings lighter than these...
This member provokes the members, posters and readers with his postings and replies, and defames this forum at other forums..
This sick person has exploited the free space made available to him to abuse religion, principles and members.
For this reason, it is a negative freedom that does n't work with this sick person.
Freedom is for those who research, debates and proposes serious matters about which he exchanges opinion and thoughts with others in respectful way.
But to badmouth a broad cross-section of the community and make fun of those posting under the pretext of " satirical criticism ", is acceptable neither to yourselves nor to your nations..
God knows what the intentions are.
ageel-al9labah@hotmail.com..@z@aabalsaah
Ready for the Forum
Brother Mim.. This sick person is looking for notoriety
He presents the liberals ' annoying and distressing subjects, then searches in Google to see who copied a subject and who spoke about it...
The most important thing for him is to become famous... even at the expense of his honor, if he has any
.. otherwise, what normal, reasonable person gets abused and insulted in a forum, then directs others to that forum, and links to where he was insulted to prove his notoriety !!
I hope the moderators will take serious action against this sick person..
Because normal people have been stopped...
and what about this mental ?
ageel-al9labah@hotmail.com..@z@aabal-Saah
Mim
Brother Ready for the Forum Thank you for the brief introduction to Nasri
But I still insist on hearing the answer from him directly, my question is still open.
I repeat and I say it again... If you want it to the private mail, I have no objection.
Only God brings success, no one else.
Nasri
Our sister Hissa Machiavelli It seems that your aspirations are in conflict with your desires just as the first part of your handle cancels its last out.
The disadvantaged wishes and the strong acts, and you have disadvantaged yourself to satisfy others.
However, your contradictory handle has enabled me to invent myself a contradictory handle and call it The Unfaithful Divorcee.
It is shameful to decide that our desires are the correct act, and that they are the ideal for life.
Perhaps this is as a result of a concealed pride, but why do you judge the acts of others as sick and yours as perfect ?
The same rationale that allows you to judge the acts of others has allowed us to judge you !!
My brother Misu It seems that your insults are of two kinds : one encoded and the other decoded.
If only you would encode all your replies !
If you were saved from the lion do n't start wishing to hunt it