The National Syrian Party in Lebanon, and Very Dangerous Facts
Al Shaheen2005
At a time when the Lebanese judiciary continues its investigation into the file of the detainees of " the Syrian National Social Party, " very important, and at the same time, dangerous, information was revealed about an attempt to blow up the location of a Phalange celebration in Al Koura, which was set to be attended by president Amin Al Gemayel, Minister and martyr Pierre Al Gemayel, and hundreds of supporters of the Lebanese Phalange Party, per an order from Parliament Member Asaad Herdan. That was " Cailion " restaurant in Al Koura on January 15, 2005, 29 days before the crime of the assassination of Prime Minister Rafiq Al Hariri, and three months after the assassination attempt of Minister Marwan Hamada, which would have raised the number of crimes and explosions to 16.
Minister Gemayel was assassinated by gunshots in an armed attack on his procession in the New Jadida sector on the 21st of last November.
Information states that the security official of the Syrian National Social Party, Toni Mansour, admitted in the investigation that, after the Phalange Party set a date for the celebration to be held in the North with the attendance of President Al Gemayel and his son Pierre on January 15, 2005, he received an order from Parliament Member Asaad Herdan to " blow up " the celebration.
In implementing the orders, Mansour went with a group of his assistants on January 13, 2005, two days before the celebration, to the restaurant, where he started to plant an explosive package containing 15 kilograms of " T. N. T. " substance.
But he was surprised that the timer he had brought had a manufacturing defect, which forced him to postpone the mission for another day.
Mansour states that it was decided to replant the explosive package hours before the start of the celebration.
He went to the restaurant with his assistants, but he was surprised that a security siege had surrounded the place before the time set for the celebration, which forced him to cancel his project.
Yet the ongoing investigation with Mansour and his assistants did not reach a reliable criminal connection between the assassination attempt on President Al Gemayel and his son Pierre, which was postponed for reasons beyond their control in the North, and the assassination crime that was committed in New Jadida on the morning of a party tour by Minister Al Gemayel of the northern party members, which was described as having achieved excellent results.
The international investigation committee, under the leadership of Belgian Judge Serge Brammertz, was assigned to assist in revealing the assassination crime of Minister Al Gemayel.
The procedure the Lebanese judiciary will take against Parliament Member Asaad Herdan is not known, after he was proved to have given orders to Mansour to perform an explosive operation that was supposed to kill the Phalange leadership and its party members.
The Lebanese Constitution states that immunity should be removed from Parliament members if they are pursued for penal crimes, in case the council was in a holding round.
The normal-LSB-round-RSB-period ended at the end of last December without opening an exceptional round.
An explosive package of this size had exploded in several areas in the northern-LSB-board-RSB-, Ashrafieh, Jounieh, and Kasslik, between March 18, 2005 and May 7 of the same year.
Also, in the framework of this judicial investigation, criminal experts stated that the explosives that were found in the houses of the arrestees of the Syrian National Social Party, together with two hundred kilograms of " T. N. T. " substance, entered the Lebanese market in the year 2000, which refutes all that has been said, that the explosives and weapons go back to the eighties of the last century when the party was a brigade in the national resistance against the Israeli occupation in southern Lebanon.
Lebanese " Future "
My forehead is up.
al_shaheen2005@hotmail.com
Al Shaheen2005
Would Syria admit what it is doing in Lebanon after these confessions, or it will deny its agents and actions as usual, with false shameful justifications ?
Day after day, Syria's connection to all the terrorist incidents that happen in sister Lebanon is proven, as the ignorance, shallow mindedness, and methodology of Syrian politicians is proven to everyone.
My forehead is up.
al_shaheen2005@hotmail.com