Urgent : An Overt and Direct Message of Threat to Saudi Arabia and Saudi Arabia Replies..!!
Al-Fahlawi
Al-Arabiya :
Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki considers the execution of Saddam as an internal matter and threatens to reexamine relations with any country that refuses to respect the will of the Iraqis in carrying out the execution on the holiday.
_________________________
I remembered after this news the saying of the fly to the mountain : Hold on well because I intend to fly.
Really the worst misfortune is that which calls for laughter..
As if I know, you are complaining about the headline of the subject which contains resounding words such as " urgent " and " threat. " !!
In fact I do not blame you because that government which is called the Iraqi government does not reach the level of attracting the attention of the Arabs. And because its positions are known beforehand-LRB-acting as an agent.. filthiness.. vulgarity of words.. political ignorance... etc.-RRB-
The evidence of that is that the Saudi Crown Prince replied to this dirty message before its declaration. Since he declared yesterday that Saudi Arabia will not interfere in the affairs of Iraq and encourages its sons to reunite.
______________
What quasi-men is Iraq afflicted with ?
What dirty agents are those who turn the rudder of governance in Iraq ?
Let this quasi-man called Nouri al-Maliki know that when troubles come, after God, Saudi Arabia and Egypt are the impregnable dam for everyone in whose heart throbs an atom of faith and manliness and Arabism.
To correspond with me use the following address : http:AbuAbdullaah.arabform.com.
Your brotherAbu Abdullah.
Qays the son of his father
Let the threats come ; your threats wo n't harm me *** Does the buzz of the wings of flies harm anyone ?
Does history repeat itself ?
Nouri al-Maliki's situation will be like that of Ibn al-Alqami after his great treason in the murder of the Caliph of the Muslims al-Mustasim.
He who has high status does not carry a grudge.......... He who has anger in his nature does not attain greatness.......
For correspondence ghais2001@hotmail.com
gwardyola
Your government does not honor any Arab state by having relations with it...
The day will come when you will be gone as a result of this deed of yours.
As for the relations with the Arab states and your government under the shadow of occupation, let them be gone unmourned, you subordinate Safavid executioner...
By the will of God, your government agent will soon not exist in the land of Mesopotamia...
gwardyola
Last Request
He must make threats, run away, and groan..
These are the instructions of the bedbugs Bus-LRB-Bush-RRB-, otherwise they will make him fly as they have made others fly.
I am sure that all his statements come by e-mail from the White House.
Great minds have goals,,,, while others have wishes.
Rajaaa100@Hotmail.Com.
Leader of the great legions
I have never in my life seen a president of a country more stupid than the president of the United States..
A stupid president in every meaning of the word...
He dragged his country and the Arab region into a quagmire... and stupidly gave Iraq to Iran in such a way that would make a reasonable person think that there was a secret agreement between Bush and Iran to deliver Iraq.
I am telling al-Maliki and the other henchmen of Bush.... not to overstep his status...
He is just a weak and powerless person...
His country is being run by the mullahs of Iran and he is just a trivial toy in the hand of Muqtada al-Sadr and al-Khomeini... like it or not, despite Bush...
The evidence is the trial of Saddam which God exposed to everyone, Arabs, non-Arabs, and Westerners....
I really see destruction and evil spreading, encompassing Iraq.
We are on the verge of destruction and ruin, very close in Iraq, incomparable to what happened to it in previous years...
Rather, Iraq will be a theater of major war operations which may be nuclear, burning the green and the dry, and turning Baghdad into the remains of a city inhabited by crows and the riding animals of the graves.
I call upon my Sunni brothers to leave and avoid the fire of civil strife with the impure Shiites.
May God fight them until God accomplishes with them what happened to the Rafidites and Shiites of Satan, and with His might may He use the transgressors to destroy the transgressors.
Thanks to al-Fahlawi....
I enjoyed the simplicity of exposition and how close the words were to the heart and mind...
Many happy returns each year.
On behalf of the leadership of the great legions....
Leader of the great legions
What's happening now reminds me of the film Fahrenheit 911 by the director Michael Moore which revealed the real personality of the cowboy and spoiled child of the Bush family, George W. Bush, on behalf of the leadership of the great legions....
Bread Seller
Regards..
Sorry brother-LRB-al-Fahlawi-RRB-.. I was late in entering a comment,,
We tell al-Maliki.. The execution of Saddam is not an internal matter..
Those who overthrew his regime and arrested him are the armies of the coalition, and not the army of the government of al-Hakim and Muqtada.
Thus the debate on the issue of his execution and his trial should have been an international matter for which an international court was formed..
Even the moderates among the American politicians have stated so..
Anyway.. al-Maliki.. knows the disgraceful situation over which he presides..
After his ratification of the implementation of Saddam's death sentence.. he sensed the danger and fear of what he had done, which al-Hakim and Muqtada had involved him in, and behind them the Safavids.
In a press interview conducted with him immediately after the ratification, he expressed the wish that his tenure would end soon and that he would not accept renewal.
The bitter truth is that.. this government came through a forged legitimate way.. whose mask will be revealed in the near future..
God is the one from whom help is sought..
Above all those who have knowledge is the All-Knowing..
Al-Fahlawi
Al-Asha :
May you be safe and healthy every year, my eminent brother..
You are really truthful, my brother al-Asha, but I wish they knew..
There is much evidence against the Rafidites in particular..
Perhaps the most important of them is the " Shah of Iran " and how he " spoiled " after they ate his flesh and threw away his bones..
God, hasten the destruction of America and its agents..
Thank you brother al-Asha and I was happy to see you and your participation
______________________
The Clever
May Allah greet you and honor you my excellent maternal uncle..
Believe me.
What you mentioned, despite its importance, is considered a drop in the ocean of Safavid Zoroastrian treachery..
My teeth drip blood on these traitors because of what I have read and what I have followed..
But we do not say anything except that troubles will befall a person who transgresses.
I thank you very much for honoring us by passing by and for your kindness..
May God grant us and you success, and may He give our eyes and your eyes the pleasure of seeing the death and destruction of the traitors.
To correspond with me use the following address : http:AbuAbdullaah.arabform.com.
Your brotherAbu Abdullah.
Al-Fahlawi
I thank all brothers for their pleasant interaction on the subject..
I apologize to everyone for the late and collective reply..
This is because I was away from the forum these days.
Again, thank you all very much.
To correspond with me use the following address : http:AbuAbdullaah.arabform.com.
Your brotherAbu Abdullah.