Will the Capital Market Authority prove its integrity and suspend Al-Waleed now in accordance with its regulations ?
Dirawi
Will the Capital Market Authority suspend Al-Waleed after his conference, as it suspended others in accordance with its rules ?
Al-Kanhal's 2005 statement for which he was suspended.
Al-Kanhal said that the Sidq Company is an industrial company and one of the founding companies of the Ansab Corporation
And my information is about its good future plans.
The Mubrid Company is a company that owns the biggest land transport fleet in the Middle East, because the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is considered one of the biggest exporting and importing countries in the world.
Speaking of his support for investor ownership in companies, he explained that this phenomenon is healthy due to the presence of a young generation of holders of scientific qualifications and administrative expertise, a matter that changes the policies and activities of some companies to generate a greater profit.
Speaking of his expectations for the Saudi market during the coming period in light of the big growth in some companies, he said : " The Saudi market has a number of incentives that are helping it to grow, these being the proximity of announcing the third quarter, the rise in petroleum prices, and the close announcement of share division and the Capital Market Authority regulations for starting consultants ' and brokering offices.
Speaking of his support for some of the investors expanding into the Gulf markets, he said I do not support that, as the Saudi stock market is considered one of the biggest markets in the Middle East, and investing in it does very well.
We praise God that the daily value of the market has reached twenty-five billion.
This reflects the strength and solidity of the Saudi market.
Finally, he asked the CEOs of companies to apply the regulations issued by the Capital Market Authority at that time to maintain the rights of shareholders.
Al-Kanhal praised the regulations of the Capital Market Authority governed by His Excellency Mr. Jammaz al-Suhaimi.
The new regulations it had endorsed maintained the market's balance.
We are still awaiting many more regulations from it.
The decision to suspend Al-Kanhal.
The announcement by the Capital Market Authority on Sunday 6 Ramadan 1426 AH and what the press published on the following day about the Authority's decision.
Suspension of al-Kanhal's investment accounts.
The Market's Conduct Regulations issued by the Capital Market Authority.
In accordance with Decision number 1-11-1424 dated 2081425 AH, being 1042004 AD In accordance with the Capital Market Law issued by Royal Decree number M30 dated 261424 AH. Part Four. Untrue Statements. Article Seven : Prohibition of Untrue Statements. A person is prohibited from making an untrue statement of material fact verbally or in writing or from failing to make a statement required to be made under the Capital Market Law, the Implementing Regulations, or the rules of the Exchange or the Depositary Center, if the statement is made, or the person fails to make the required statement, for the purpose of influencing the price or value of a security, inducing another person to purchase or sell a security, or inducing him to exercise or refrain from exercising rights under a security.
Article Eight : Rumours.
a-RRB-A person is prohibited from circulating, directly or indirectly, an untrue statement of material fact or a statement of opinion for the purpose of influencing the price or value of a security or for any manipulative purpose.
b-RRB-The prohibition in paragraph-LRB-a-RRB-applies to a statement made by the person who circulates the statement or to a statement made by another person.
Article Nine : Untrue Statements Defined
a-RRB-A person makes an untrue statement of material fact in any of the following circumstances : 1-RRB-if he makes a statement that is false or inaccurate in a material respect ; 2-RRB-if he procures another person to make a statement that is false or inaccurate in a material respect ; 3-RRB-if he makes a statement that contains a misrepresentation of a material fact ; 4-RRB-if he procures another person to make a statement that contains a misrepresentation of a material fact ; or 5-RRB-if he omits a material fact when making a statement.
b-RRB-A material fact is any information relating to a security which, if the investor knew about, would have materially affected the price or value at which the investor purchased or sold the security.
Article Ten : Responsibility for untrue statements.
For the purposes of application of Article 56 of the Capital Market Law and the provisions of a-RRB-A person shall be liable for damages to a claimant if he makes an untrue statement of material fact and the statement is made : 1-RRB-for the purpose of profit or commercial benefit ; and 2-RRB-in relation to the purchase or sale of a security.
b-RRB-A claimant for damages under paragraph-LRB-a-RRB-of this Article must establish that : 1-RRB-he was not aware that the statement was untrue ; 2-RRB-he would not have purchased or sold the security in question if he was aware of the untrue statement, or that he would not have purchased or sold the security at the price at which such security was purchased or sold ; and 3-RRB-the person who made the untrue statement knew, or knew that there was a substantial likelihood, that the statement was untrue in relation to a material fact.
c-RRB-A person shall be liable for damages to a claimant, if he is obliged under the Capital Market Law, the Implementing Regulations, or the rules of the Exchange or the Depositary Center to make a statement and fails to do so provided that : 1-RRB-the claim for damages is in relation to the purchase or sale of a security ; and 2-RRB-what has been omitted relates to a material fact.
d-RRB-A claimant for damages under paragraph-LRB-c-RRB-of this Article must establish that : 1-RRB-he was not aware of the failure to make the statement ; and 2-RRB-he would not have purchased or sold the security in question had he known in advance that the statement was omitted, or that he would not have purchased or sold the security at the price at which such security was purchased or sold.
-LRB--LRB--LRB--LRB--LRB-copied-RRB--RRB--RRB--RRB--RRB-.
Will the law be applied and will Al-Waleed being suspended ? Especially as he has a precedent in involving poor speculators with his previous statement some months ago. when he made the market artificially rebound. then he got rid of his shares and profited from the pockets of small traders after they were suspended.
or will the Authority prove its failure and confirm that it is only a scarecrow solely against the poor and the weak.
Wolves attack people who do not have dogs.... and they fear the lair of the ferocious would-be lion.
When will we hear the roaring of the ferocious would-be lion ?
dirawy@gmail.com
God support everyone who support religion and abandon anyone who abandons religion.
Abu Dilama
For correspondence :
alisau@gmail.com
Morning of the Nighttime
Where did you get this from, Abu Dilama ?
he, he, he, he
Do n't forget to mention God.
The Rejoicer
Al-Waleed, and who is Al-Waleed, a blood-sucker...
He is the true patriot in the view of Ibn Bakhit, when he made fun of others and praised him.
and it later became clear that he was the most warlike of men and people get in trouble because of him....
But the Capital Market Authority can not do a thing to him
The word is integrity.
MINT
It's too early.
They will give him a call and stop him ; the Authority knows its limits well.
mint35@hotmail.com
More than one person is writing under this handle until God eases the hardship.
The Perpetual Optimist
If the collapse is on the American stock market he could be right.
This type of person enjoys sucking the bones of the dead.
What is built on falsehood is false.
-LRB-he asked one of them : " Do you know anything about commerce ?
So our friend replied : " No. "
Then he said laughing : " May God increase the likes of you. "
We say God said and the prophet-LRB-peace and blessings be upon him-RRB-said.. they say Abu Abdullah said.
What a difference between our source and theirs.
k.m.n_84@hotmail.com
JARIR
The man is in agreement with the Capital Market Authority.
Riyadh-Fahd al-Marikhi : Photography by Saleh al-Jamia
His Royal Highness, Prince Al-Waleed ibn Talal, the CEO of the Kingdom Holding Company, has announced the pumping of more than 10 billion riyals into the Saudi share and property markets, explaining that over five billion riyals will be distributed to a number of sectors, these being : the banking sector, through the increase of investment in the Samba Financial Group to make its share larger than 5 percent ; the industrial sector through the increase in investment in the National Industrialization Company to increase the share of the Kingdom Holding Company to more than 10 percent ; and the food production sector through the increase in investment in the Safola Company to make its share larger than 13 percent ; and the media sector through a new investment in the Saudi Research and Publishing company of a more than 25 percent share in the company, in addition to the investment in a number of companies that will soon be publicly listed on the Saudi stock market, such as the Mid Gulf company in the insurance sector.
During a press conference held be him yesterday at the Riyadh headquarters of the Kingdom Holding Company, Prince Al-Waleed explained that the pumping of this money has taken more time than anticipated, but confirmed that it was not for speculation but for investment purposes
the relevant state authorities have been informed of these investments in accordance with the transparency principle in use
Prince Al-Waleed explained that the remaining five billion were invested in the property sector that included the Riyadh project which will be launched in the first quarter of the current financial year, and the Jeddah project which will be launched at the beginning of the coming year indicating that an area of 165 million square meters of land had actually been purchased by the Kingdom Holding Company in Riyadh and another area of 53 million square meters in Jeddah for the establishment of these two projects. and a study undertaken to turn these property companies in the future into ones publicly listed on the share market.
The total costs of the Jeddah project is expected to amount to approximately 50 billion riyals and will turn the map of the town upside down.
It includes a high multi-purpose tower,
and the project will also include a residential district with an area of 2 million square meters, shopping areas and an educational area as well as areas for commercial offices, entertainment, tourism and hotels.
The possibility of developing a diplomatic quarter is being examined at present, while taking into consideration all the required specifications for this quarter.
The entire planning for this project is being done by a Canadian international company.
Speaking of the Riyadh project, Prince Al-Waleed said that it is situated on the Dammam road.
The project, the execution of which will start shortly, will include a tourist resort project managed by Fairmont
The total value of the investment upon completion of the project will be about 25 billion riyals, and it will include a residential quarter containing 135 thousand residential units.
Prince Al-Waleed reported that he had previously mentioned that the market was facing danger some five months prior to its collapse last February, pointing out that when the stock market surpassed the 20 thousand points, that was exaggerated and illogical because the Price Earnings Ratio in some companies were reaching a thousand riyals and that was not possible.
That collapse was expected, not to mention the speculation that occurred.
With the revival of the petro-market and the increase in the Kingdom's revenue, both of the government or the citizens, there was a lot of money and limited investment opportunities,
so inflation occurred, leading to the collapse and not a single Saudi family escaped being hit.
Even in the current market situation, if we compare to the Price Earning Ratio then it is still logical and realistic,
He pointed out that current share prices were logical and reasonable. and demanded investors stop speculating because that leads to many bankruptcies.
He said that there are companies on the market in which profit potential was nonexistent.
He applauded the decision of the Capital Market Authority to suspend dealings of the two companies and said that it was a wise decision but it had come too late as there were fears from speculators of suspending the shares of other companies, and this is one of the state's rights, to suspend dealing in the shares of companies that were hopeless.
He indicated that there might be other companies whose shares will be suspended and that investors should buy into companies that, it was hoped, would remain and continue.
Speaking of the timing of this announcement and the reasons for it, Prince Al-Waleed said that the undertaking to pump 10 billion riyals into the Saudi market was made last March and that the investment he had undertaken was not completed till two weeks ago and therefore it was being announced.
He hoped that the market had hit the bottom but without any mad rises as had happened in the past, as they were short-term paper profits.
He expected that the current year would witness the restoration of equilibrium to the Saudi market after reaching a kind of sensibility.
He explained that the Saudi authorities were insistent on driving out the speculators who were pushing the market into harming them and the small investors.
He pointed out that the market is looking for a bottom to hit thereafter to be able to rise in a logical and reasonable way
He indicated that the market was looking for a bottom at 7000 points or slightly less.
He added : " We do not want the Saudi stock market to return to insane and unacceptable figures as it did in the past the Kingdom Holding Company is investing in the market to restore confidence in it.
More importantly, the investor must be educated to invest in companies that have a good future. "
Prince Al-Waleed confirmed that the Kingdom Holding Company is continuing with its plans to list for sale a percentage of its shares agreed upon with the state, to reach a figure that serves the Saudi citizen and does not harm the future interests of the Company and its expansions.
He stressed that even in the current market conditions the company would be listing its shares on the market in the current year.
Speaking of the downturn on the stock market in light of the increasing petroleum revenues and the record budget achieved by the state during the last two financial years, Prince Al-Waleed said that the stock market is a mirror of the Saudi economy. but if the stock market was exaggerated then there would be a difference between the state of the Saudi market in general and the stock market and this is what happened.
He offered a number of suggestions to the Ministry of Finance and officials to help the companies, namely : to allow companies to buy their shares immediately which would give trust in the market and would reduce the number of dealt in shares on the market and thus increase the amount of profit ; to allow non-Saudi companies and corporations to enter the market by placing controls such as instituting sectors for shares and an ownership percentage ceiling ; and to oblige companies to disclose future expectations of the companies ' performances.
A discussion with the CEOs of Saudi companies has been initiated by the Kingdom Holding Company by sending them letters dealing with the disclosure of the companies ' future expectations.
This is done by all companies in the developed world with the aim of obliging the company to achieve the declared profit or something close to it and to re-assure the investor.
Finally, more disclosures between the company and the investor, since there are companies with specific profit achieving strategies not from its basic accredited activities, such as achieving non-repeatable profit.
He added : " We wish to remove the weak companies that do not represent the Saudi economy from the market and separate them from the companies with big profits. "
He confirmed that these proposals would be made to state officials to be applied to companies.
Prince Al-Waleed denied that the Kingdom Holding Company had liquidized any portfolio it had in the Kingdom,
but on the contrary, it had increased its investments in a number of companies, and in addition did not enter into any speculation at all but is working on buying and keeping for investment.
He also denied that the collapse of last February was planned by any party, but it rather occurred because of the illogical prices reached by the market.
He indicated that the collapse was expected because of the inflation in share prices and said that any person familiar with the stock market will confirm that the collapse was imminent at that time.
He explained that the state could not in any way be made responsible for the losses of investors on the market and must remain neutral on that.
The role of the state is to prevent the manipulators from exposing the market to fluctuations, to punish them and to suspend bankrupt companies.
He pointed out that there is a study on dividing the market because it was difficult to place profitable, strong companies alongside weak loss-making ones, and this is where the Capital Market Authority plays a role.
He called upon the investors and not the experience lacking speculators in the market, to go to investment funds and banks to invest their finances in a professional manner, so as to avoid getting caught in market fluctuations and become exposed to losses.
As for the stagnation in Saudi economy, it is not probable, because last year and at the peak of the stock market collapse, the Saudi economy flourished and achieved a 6 per cent growth, because there is a difference in the course of the Saudi economy and that of the stock market.
He asserted that expectations indicate there will be no stagnation in the Saudi economy during the current year due to its strength, especially in the light of the serious strong steps taken by the government to not to concentrate on the petroleum factor.
Regarding the company's competition for the third license to operate cell phones in the Kingdom, he said that they have an alliance with the Turkish Turkcell Company to compete for this license, and as regards the license for fixed phones, the company will not enter into such competition.
Regarding the investment in the Bank of China, Prince Al-Waleed said that the company had applied to invest as a representative of the Arab world and the Middle East, based on a request made by the Chinese authorities.
He pointed out that the company requested an investment of two billion dollars but had allocated only 300 million dollars for the company and the deal went through.
The profits gained from listing the company's shares amounted to about 25 per cent.
JARIR9@hotmail.com
The Skull-capped One
There is a number of questions whose answers would let us know what the course of the market will be ?
Is Al-Waleed's view with his team of analysts and consultants that these sinking levels might form a bottom to the market ?
Do these growing profits and collapsing prices form an historic opportunity for investment ?
Will the major investors return with the entry of Al-Waleed as it is generally known that any market has its bottom with the investors and its peak with the speculators ?
Has investment become more advantageous in the medium and long terms ?
Will the course of the market and the method of dealing with it change after a whole year of collapse ?
The features of the answers to this questions will become evident during the coming period, starting from tomorrow.
There is no God but God and Mohammed is the messenger of God.
Dirawi
We are picking the condemnations of Al-Waleed from the news which the writer JARIR has added and providing a commentary in red.
through the increase of investment in the Samba Financial Group to make its share larger than 5 percent ; the industrial sector through the increase in investment in the National Industrialization Company to increase the share of the Kingdom Holding Company to more than 10 percent ; and the food production sector through the increase in investment in the Safola Company to make its share larger than 13 percent ; and the media sector through a new investment in the Saudi Research and Publishing company of a more than 25 percent share in the company, in addition to the investment in a number of companies that will soon be publicly listed on the Saudi stock market, such as the Mid Gulf company in the insurance sector.
During a press conference held be him yesterday at the Riyadh headquarters of the Kingdom Holding Company, Prince Al-Waleed explained that pumping of this money had taken more time than anticipated. but confirmed that it was not for speculation but rather for investment.
the relevant state authorities have been informed of these investments in pursuance of the principle of transparency being used.
Months ago Al-Waleed declared the pumping of ten billion riyals and specified companies that were " respectable " according to his claim.
He won the confidence of some and small speculators entered the market, whereupon an artificial surge occurred, then they were caught in the collapses which followed that made-up surge and which have continued until today.
Al-Waleed had lost his credibility on the market.
He had to change his rhetoric if he wanted to restore his credibility in order to continue his mission of beating the market-LRB-as some believe-RRB-.
Thus he had to specify in his present statement, in addition to the names of the companies, the percentage he owns in each company-LRB-more than 5 % in Samba, more than 10 % in Manufacturing, more than 13 % in Safola, more than 25 % in Research,... etc.-RRB-
Speaking of the timing of this announcement and the reasons for it, Prince Al-Waleed said that the undertaking to pump 10 billion riyals into the Saudi market was made last March. and that the investment he had undertaken was not completed till two weeks ago and therefore it was being announced.
It is not possible to believe that Al-Waleed had been " only " collecting since last March-LRB-almost a year ago-RRB-until now. Because, if that had happened, then the rates of his prices would be much higher than the current prices.
This would be unreasonable behavior from an opportunist like Al-Waleed.
And so this explanation of his is untruthful.
" He expected that the current year would witness the restoration of equilibrium to the Saudi market after reaching a kind of sensibility. "
This expression seems to have two sides to it :
the first is to send a signal to the Market Authority that he does not want to create a very strong imaginary surge
and this might mean that the Market Authority is being informed that he will be satisfied with less profit than his-LRB-counterpart-RRB-and then get out.
The second : to win the dealers ' belief that the market might have hit the bottom and that they should safely enter with their cash and begin raising its index.
" He explained that the Saudi authorities were insistent on driving out the speculators who were pushing the market into harming them and the small investors. "
In this clause of the statement he is assuring the minds of dealers that does not intend to dispose of his shares to them through this action of his, and so they should enter and raise up the index of his companies.
" the Kingdom Holding Company is investing in the market to restore confidence in it. "
And " more importantly, the investor must be educated to invest in companies that have a good future. "
Here Al-Waleed confirms sowing of trust in the hearts of speculators but only if they enter and give a boost to his companies.
That's why he finished by saying " educating the investor "
It is the pinnacle of education when the speculators enter into Al-Waleed's companies and get stuck, since the blow might be final.
dirawy@gmail.com
God help all those who help religion and forsake all those who forsake religion.
Major-General of the Peninsula
To God is our complaint and he is the best attorney against all those responsible for wasting the money of the poor and the hard-working.
May God bring down destructive plagues on the money of those who cause losses to Moslems, God make their money cause them distress, oh Lord of both worlds.
The jailer asked the Imam Ahmad bin Hanbal, " Am I one of the aides to oppression ? "
Imam Ahmad responded, " Nay, you are one of the oppressors themselves. "
Dirawi
Abu Dilama Al-Waleed faught the poor over their daily bread and he was in no need for that, because what he gets from his investment and commercial activities can not be counted or calculated.
But " greed and covetousness " have made him envy the poor their daily bread and he stole it from their mouths.
Many people went bankrupt.
Many homes were destroyed and collapsed and turned into places of poverty and want.
To God is our complaint and He is the best attorney.
dirawy@gmail.com
God help those who help religion and forsake all those who forsake religion.