Peres in Doha Per Invitation from Mozah.
Al Shaheen2005
Israeli Deputy Prime Minister Shimon Peres began on Monday the highest level visit of an Israeli official to a Gulf country in more than a decade, when he arrived in Qatar for a two-day visit.
The Associated Press attributed to Israeli officials that Peres would appear on a television program in which he would answer questions about " important issues " from among 300 Arab requests.
The visit is the second for Peres to Qatar, which he visited before in 1996 in his capacity as Prime Minister of Israel, according to the Chairman of the Israeli Commercial Delegation, Roi Rosenblit's, statement in Doha.
The Israeli official emphasized that the visit has no political tincture and that he has not decided to meet with any Qatari official,-LRB-some sources had indicated that he might meet the Qatari Foreign Minister-RRB-.
He clarified that Peres had accepted an invitation from the BBC to participate in a program called " Doha Debates, " in which several personalities participate.
It is overseen by the First Lady of Qatar, Sheikha Mozah Bint Nasser Al Missned.
My forehead is up.
al_shaheen2005@hotmail.com
Sakr Al Salam
Per an invitation from Mozah ?
May God lead you to righteousness, my brother.
What you conveyed just jams the name of Mozah.
I mean, the one who wrote the news deliberately intended it.
He said to his wife : be silent.
And he said to his son : shut up.
Your voices distort my thinking.
Do not utter a word.
I want to write about freedom of expression !
Al Shaheen2005
Intended it or not, do you expect that anything happens in Qatar today without the approval of Her Highness Sheikha Mozah ?
Sheikha Mozah seeks to please America by all means, even if all the citizens of the country disagree with her... and the goal is known.
Accept the regards of your brother.
My forehead is up.
al_shaheen2005@hotmail.com
Asiri
In which he answers questions about " important issues " from among 300 Arab requests !!!
They became-LRB-solvers-RRB-of issues, the likes of Peres, and the ones like them.
Then we can say we have reached solutions !!
My regards, brother Al Shaheen.
My regards and appreciation to all.
Sada Al Harf
First Lady of Qatar ?!!!
Maybe her name is Mozah Bush ?
Glory and thanks to God, as much as His creations, His self-satisfaction, the loftiness of His Throne, and the extent of His words.
For communication : alsaha100@yahoo.com.
Sakr Al Salam
And what is the goal of the Sheikha, if you please ?
I swear to God, as I understand from your words, it is not a good goal.
Accept my regards.
He said to his wife : be silent.
And he said to his son : shut up.
Your voices distort my thinking.
Do not utter a word.
I want to write about freedom of expression !
Fahd2000
I expect she would govern Qatar--
But it is said that Qatar is democratic.
It is the first to assign a woman this position in the region......
By the way, the First Lady of Qatar, we knew........
who is the First Man of Qatar ?
A lot of people from three Gulf countries... use this name..!
For communication type the email and do not paste it
-LRB-i_am_s4udi@yahoo.com-RRB-
Al Shaheen2005
Doha-LRB-Reuters-RRB--
Israeli Deputy Prime Minister Shimon Peres quoted the Prince of Qatar as saying the Islamic Resistance Movement-LRB-Hamas-RRB-would make peace if Israel would abandon the lands it occupied in the 1967 war.
Peres said he also discussed Iran's nuclear ambitions with Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani, Prince of Qatar, during a rare visit to the American-allied Gulf country, his first in a decade.
" In his judgment, if Israel would go back to the borders of 1967, Hamas would make peace with Israel, " Peres told reporters after the meeting.
" He-LRB-Sheikh Hamad-RRB-says Hamas was elected, and he thinks Hamas is more pragmatic than we think. "
Peres said about the Hamas movement, which won the Palestinian elections in 2006 and refuses to recognize the Jewish state, " I told him that Hamas has refused to meet.
Hamas has announced it will not recognize the signed agreements between us and the Palestinians. "
Israel " should, pay so much attention to their declarations, as they have to please another audience, " he reported Sheikh Hamad as saying in the meeting, which lasted for one hour, and which he described as " frank and amiable. "
Peres said the talks also addressed Iran's nuclear program.
He said Israel would back increased " economic pressure and a psychological campaign " against the government of Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who is a sworn enemy of Israel.
" I do not think Israel has a problem with Iran ; it has a problem with Ahmadinejad, " Peres said.
Peres said that there is " a great deal of dissatisfaction inside Iran " with the policies of Ahmadinejad.
" You can not feed your children enriched uranium for breakfast. You need something more than that, " he added.
Iran's neighbors in the Gulf expressed their concern over Iran's nuclear plans, and Saudi officials said that an Iran which owns nuclear weapons could spur a regional arms race.
Peres was the most senior Israeli official to visit Doha in 1996 when he opened a trade office in the country.
There are no official diplomatic relations with Qatar.
Qatar and several other Arab countries ended an economic ban on Israel after it signed interim peace agreements with the Palestinians in 1993, but relations deteriorated after the outbreak of the uprising in 2000.
My forehead is up.
al_shaheen2005@hotmail.com
Al Shaheen2005
Esseri.
A crisis and what a crisis...
In general, I believe they will look for any justification in order to attract the likes of Peres in a way that facilitates his attendance and presence.
It is ok also if that lecture story is used, as long as it achieves the goal.
Sufficient unto us is God, and He is the best supporter.
My forehead is up.
al_shaheen2005@hotmail.com