A New Scandal : The Lebanese Hezbollah.. Buying People and Exploiting Their Needs.
My head is raised
Although snakes may be soft to the touch,...... when turned over they have harmful fangs.
Some were astonished by the number of people who are staging strikes in Lebanon and who oppose the legitimate government of al-Siniora, and who considered this as mobilization on the part of Hezbollah and its supporters and a confirmation of the strength of this organization.
But the truth is completely different from that, since the majority of strikers are jobless and they have found in these strikes something that provides them with money, shelter, and food. Especially after it became clear that these strikers are paid money by Hezbollah.
Each striker is paid $ 20 a day.
Imagine a Lebanese family on strike.
There are five members, for example, so they will get $ 100 a day, which is a large sum for them that they would not get under any circumstances, except through this strike which they wish would last forever.
Hezbollah buys these people and exploits their needs to achieve a goal and political aims..
It is noticed that the officials in Hezbollah prevent any stranger from entering the places of the strikes or trying to get in touch or talk with some of the strikers for fear of revealing these secrets.
The senator..
Nothing new my brother as implied by the title of the subject, because Hezbo Allat trades at the expense of the Lebanese.
And the most important thing on its agenda is to take over the reins of power to continue the march of its service to Iran.
I am Muslim
Hahahahahahaahahhahahahahahhahahahahahahahahhahahah. hahahahahahahahaha
And you--how did you find out the secret, you dangerous person ? Zzzzz
And not the Mossad, sheikh.
The senator..
The habit of Shiites is lying and trickery, and deceit.
My head is raised
My brother the senator. Yes, this is the truth.
Hezbollah is trading in the Lebanese people to serve its aims and the aims of those who stand behind it.. the interests of the party today are with Iran and Syria, and here it is serving them with all its strength...
Accept my respect.
My head is raised
My brother. The facts are clear and do not need further explanations.
Last week I was in-LRB-Beirut-RRB-on a special visit.
I have relationships with many Lebanese-LRB-Sunnis and Shiites-RRB-and I saw what is happening on the ground of reality.
The thing is no secret, and any visitor who is eager to know these facts can reach them.
I'll mention to you a report written by an American writer who speaks about some of these issues, particularly the attempt of Hezbollah to obscure the facts related to the strikes and prevent their disclosure.
My regards to you.
Kissinger
How cheap by God !
Intellectual of the top
Brother, my head is raised.
Peace to you and God's mercy and blessings.
Yes, we have heard such talk more than once, in addition to the sums of money they are being provided with clothes.
They try to recruit them from the areas of the south known for extreme poverty.
All these expenses are paid by the Iranian government which is trying to control the region, whether in Iraq or Syria or Lebanon.
This is a new scandal for this party which is exploiting the needs of the people to implement its plans.
And peace to you.
The Imagination99
Confirming the words of brother, my head is raised. This is the source of the news.
http:www.al-majalla.comListNews.a...=1175&MenuID=8
My head is raised
Yes, how cheap, really, to buy attitudes, allegiances, values with a bunch of dollars..
Honorable people are not bought.
Thank you..
My head is raised
Intellectual of the top Have a pleasant evening.
The strange thing is that we find people who try to deny the existence of things such as these.
I think he knows the truth but because of doctrinal positions or financial gains or certain political inclinations you find him closing his mind, throwing these facts behind his back, and enjoying the attempt to promote and polish falsehood.
My regards.