Saddam Hussein was able to prove to the world the stupidity of the Rafida.
Talal
Peace be upon you and the mercy of God and His blessings
Yes, Saddam Hussein was able to prove to the world the stupidity of the Rafida.
Do n't you agree with me that the Safavid Rafida revealed to the world their stupidity when they showed the Arabs in general, and the Sunnis in particular, their hidden hatred and limitless detestation, and revealed their dirty plans and policy.
Yes, they are stupid because they revealed their true colors and proved to all Arabs that there are plans for major loathing and hatred for all the Sunnis in the world.
Yes, they are stupid otherwise what is the benefit of executing Saddam Hussein at this time ?
For Saddam Hussein, there was no difference whether he was executed today or tomorrow or on a feast day or otherwise.
Yes, they are stupid because they did not harm Saddam but themselves, as they revealed their wickedness, their cunning and their coming danger and to all Moslems, Arabs and Sunnis.
They were so ensconced in their deep hatred that they did not observe the holy months or at least the rule of law.
Yes, they revealed to all the Arab peoples in Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Libya, Jordan, Sudan, Yemen, Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia and Syria their treachery, loathing and hatred for them.
The idiots gained nothing but the hatred of the nations for them.
Rather they made Saddam Hussein a believing martyred hero.
Why are we sad ?
Many Arabs did not like Saddam and were not happy with many of his deeds, but after his execution in this way everybody sympathized with him.
No one blames Saddam for what he did with those traitors, sons of temporary marriages, Safavids, whose noses he rubbed in the ground.
Yes, these traitors proved that no one but a ruler like Saddam Hussein can make them act straight and control them.
Why do we grieve for a man whose last words were " I bear witness that there is no God but God and I bear witness that Muhammad is the prophet of God. "
All witnessed the execution of the genius brave leader Saddam Hussein, and witnessed his bravery.
Those Safavid Rafida crowded together in front of him, cursing and mocking him as if they were children.
But he stood pround and strong as we were used to him being.
I swear by God if any of these traitors had been in Saddam Hussein's place you would have seen him weeping, begging or at least fainting more than once.
These idiots did not know that they had made a martyred, believing hero out of Saddam.
They only proved to the world his bravery and his might and, on the other hand, they proved to the world their hidden hatred and their lack of manners.
The mentally deranged Moqtada Perfidy-LRB-one becomes aware that he is a child if he speaks-RRB-also al-Hakim-LRB-the greatly malicious one-RRB-and Al-Jaafari and Al-Maliki and Muwaffaq al-Rubaei and many of those traitors were also preent so that they could satisfy their thirst for revenge on a leader whose bravery and struggle the world attested. and who suppressed those traitors who only worked for the interests of a hostile foreign state-LRB-such as Iran and America-RRB-.
Why this mockery and shouting of petty slogans such as " Saddam go to hell " and " down with the tyrant " and others ?
Was n't there a sensible man amongst them ?
Yes, those Persian Safavids proved without doubt to the world that they do not use reason in their dealings, but that they deal in hate and loathing.
Yes, those idiots proved that they are behind everything that is happening to the Sunnis in Iraq and all this is no one's setup but theirs.
Do n't those stupid traitor Safavid Rafida collaborators know that they have not hurt Saddam but themselves ?
For they proved to the world that they are a stupid people, a people of hate, a people who loath the Sunnis all over the world.
We know that Saddam was not ever a traitor or lackey but that he was a brave militant leader and died a martyr.
We know that an offer was made to Saddam to save his skin, leave Iraq and live as a political refugee in any state he wanted but he considered it a betrayal and continued struggling until he was martyred.
We know the Americans offered Saddam Hussein his release when a prisoner, to go to any state he wished in return for stopping the Mujahideen but he refused and considered it a betrayal.
We know that whoever overthrew Saddam Hussein was none other than your crusader masters and that you are too small to overthrow Saddam Hussein, and that you are nothing but lackey traitor scum.
We know that your hatred of your master and executioner Saddam Hussein only comes from the fact that he is someone who knew how to keep you in check and trampled on your necks with his shoes for more than thirty years.
That's why all nations of the world do not blame Saddam at all, and realize that it was the hidden hand of the Rafida and the Persians of Iran that were behind what happened in Halabja but Saddam struck them with a fist of iron.
The Rafida and the Persians of Iran were the hidden hand in the assassination attempt against him in Dujail but Saddam struck them with a fist of iron.
The Rafida and the Persians of Iran were the hidden hand behind the failed coup attempt in '91 but Saddam struck them with a fist of iron.
The Rafida and the Persians of Iran were the hidden hand behind the al-Khobar explosion in '96 and also the Lebanon War in as well as the current sectarian war in Iraq.
Only an ignorant human being would blame Saddam.
Praise be to God that the way of executing Saddam Hussein was the most clear message to all Arab leaders and peoples that the Rafida and sons of temporary marriages are evil and danger has come near, take care, take care.
Talal
Saddam's last words before his martyrdom spoken to the Rafida present in front of him.
Hurray... this is what real manliness is !
Especially as those magi did not begin to shout until the rope was placed around Saddam's neck-LRB-all of this was of course cowardice and terror of the Lion-RRB-.
May God have mercy on you Saddam and forgive you.
-LRB-Glory be to the Lord and praise, glory be to the Lord Almighty-RRB-
Ibn Malik
May God lead you on the right way, brother Talal...
By God, their stupidity was well-known before Saddam.
Just read their books to find out how similar they are to the greedy banana-eaters.
Talal
Ibn Malek Thank you for passing by.
Glory be to the Lord and praise, glory be to the Lord Almighty
Talal
To the descendents of the Magi and Rafida everywhere-LRB-starting with Allawi and his putrid gang to Al-Maliki, and passing through their mullahs Khomeini, Al-Sistani-and Baqir-to the last dirty one of them.
They taught us that we should not extend them our hands although they said we are all Moslems.. and that if we debate them each of us needs to take his shoes with him... as you ca n't be safe from their deceit and their thievery.
Those unclean abominations... they are not governed by conscience nor religion nor custom nor morals, anyone who wants to feel safe with them has to feel safe from the bite of the snake in its own hole.
Miqdad your words are beautiful.
Glory be to the Lord and praise, glory be to the Lord Almighty