Expressive image
Al Waeli
Al Waeli, peace, mercy, and the blessing of God be upon you.
As a courtesy, not an order, please place in the political forum this picture, which goes back to 1973-1393, at the time of King Faisal, may God have mercy on him, when he prevented the export of oil to America.
The picture shows the extent of our ability to stand in the face of America, and I hope the members would comment on the picture.
naifgh@msn.com
Al Maghaweer
Things today are more complicated than before...
and the lurkers for us are many...
Also, the world today has become uni-polar... as they say !
I wish things would stay like that... but leave it to God...
God shall decide.
Abu Dalama
Saturday, 12241427 AH, 01132007 AD.
Question : I would like to ask His Highness Prince Saud whether the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is ready to raise its production of oil, in case the Iranian crisis causes a reduction of the Iranian production or a rise in prices ?
In other words, is the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia ready to use the oil weapon against the oil weapon ?
I would also like to ask with regard to the Iranian crisis, what is the significance of the initiatives that the group of nations, of which the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is part, I mean, the Gulf Cooperation Council, are undertaking in order to develop the project of the nuclear program ?
Is this, I mean, the preparation a group of Sunni Arab countries are undertaking as a warning directed at the Iranian leadership ?
Your Highness, the Minister : We are-LSB-handling-RSB-the issue of facing the oil weapon with the oil weapon, because we do not consider it an oil weapon.
It is wealth to be used, and we are using this wealth in consideration of our national interests, the interests of the producing nations, and the interests of the consuming nations.
His Highness the Oil Minister has very clearly clarified that the policy of the Kingdom is established on balance in the oil market.
The Kingdom has historically proven that in times of crisis, it does what it should do as the biggest producer of oil, in a way that guarantees the stability of the oil markets.
As for the nuclear program which the Gulf Cooperation Council has approved, I believe that among the most important reasons on which the Council agreed in this framework is to enter in this important industry, the importance of which not only includes a military aspect, but also a peaceful aspect, in order to establish an industry subject to strict controls that can not be violated, in order to guarantee its peaceful direction.
And it may be an example for all who want to have this industry and have no intention of developing it, other than establishing nuclear weapons.
This is the goal the Gulf Cooperation Council countries are seeking.
http:www.mofa.gov.sadetail.asp?InNewsItemID=59090&InTemplateKey=print
For correspondence :
alisau@gmail.com
Al Waeli
Al Maghaweer and brother, Abu Dalama : Thank you for participating and expressing your opinion.
And I-LSB-agree with-RSB-Prince Faisal, that it is essential to consider the interests of the nation and the interests of development in the Kingdom, but I enclosed the picture per the request of its owner.
naifgh@msn.com
Nader Abdullah
No doubt the political reading today differs from the situations in which the decision was made at that time.
The political situation of the world today has even become more complicated than before.
It ca n't be said that any oil producing country can use oil as a weapon to impose a certain political vision or political position.
It may be one of the most important reasons that the American presence in the region today has become a fact with which we have to live, not to face with any weapon.
ho11ho@hotmail.com
Hala
It is very hard today to use oil as a weapon.
We will suffer more than the Americans in my belief.
And God-LSB-knows better-RSB-.