Oh God the Protector-LRB-Hell in an Egyptian Village and Gas Bottles Flying Around-RRB-
Hani Ghazal
Hell in the village of Maniat Samanoud.
A gas bottle vehicle exploded and turned the town into a mass of fire.
Sahar died from a heart attack, and the officials moved six hours after the accident.
.
The vehicle totally burned, and behind it the bottles.
Reporting : Mohamed Badra
At three-thirty in the morning, the residents of Maniat Samanoud village came out to sounds of tremendous explosions, as if a battle of a war had been launched.
They were surprised by the gas bottles flying in the sky and falling over nearby houses, which led to fires and cracks in the houses from the power of the explosion.
Sahar Mohamed Al Baqtarsi-35 years old-died, suffering a sudden heart attack from the horrendousness of the surprise.
Al Wafd met with a number of residents.
The accountant, Ibrahim Abu Seif, says that the village warehouse bottle vehicle was coming, loaded by one of the gas companies in Samnoud city.
Village residents were surprised as it entered from the side of the bridge when fire came out from the back of the vehicle.
They informed the driver and asked him to take the vehicle outside the residential block and leave it before any explosion could happen.
The driver sped up, but he noticed the intensity of the fire in the back of the vehicle.
So he stopped the vehicle in front of traffic at the end of the residential block, in front of some houses and the mixed Nasser Preliminary school.
He left it there, fearing it would explode while he was inside.
Immediately after he left it, the explosions started, and the residents came out with the sound of loud explosions.
Everybody trotted outside their houses to Samanoud city, fearing another disaster.
" The village residents went out before dawn to the sound of explosions and learned that the bottle vehicle of the village bottle warehouse was on fire and that there were bottles in it.
The bottles started to fly over the nearby houses, which caused cracks in the houses, " said Ihab Abu Shehata.
Abd Al Hamid Jaber Abu Ghoneim, the owner of a grocery booth, says several flaming bottles fell over the booth, set it on fire, and totally destroyed it.
Mahmoud Mahmoud Al Belehi, the owner of a house close to the fire, confirms that the house was cracked when a charge of bottles entered the house and a fire started in it, cracking the ceiling and walls.
Sahar Kamal was the owner of the house facing the fire, which was totally destroyed, because more than one flaming bottle fell on the two-story house, one apartment on the first floor and two apartments on the second floor, and caused a fire that destroyed all the contents of the house.
She became homeless.
One of the charges hit the village water tank, in spite of the tank's height.
The village residents also confirmed that none of the executive agencies moved, although the residents called the Aga City Council.
No one moved.
They stayed asleep until the morning, 4 or 5 hours after the explosions, fires, and the disaster ended.
Click on the link below.
Unique of his type.
There is no power but with God the Greatest.
May God have mercy on those who died.
We ask God the Glorious for a quick recovery for the injured.
Accept my regards, brother Hani Al Ghazal.
Patriot
You scared me, man.
I expected it in a country we love, me and you.
The message arrived.
Thank yooooooooooou.
Hani Ghazal
Oh God, Amen.
Good morning, brother Farid
Hani Ghazal.
Unfortunately, but its share is coming on the way to destroy and tear it apart piece by piece.
Good morning.