A Saudi woman issues a voice recording in which she mourns her brother and demands the punishment of his killers.
HAD1999
In a unique way, a young Saudi woman has resorted to issuing a sound tape in which she mourns her brother murdered in Hafr Al Batin, in the hope of rekindling interest in his case, in which 3 young men were accused of killing him and which has not so far been resolved.
The tape contains excerpts of poetry, dramatic voice recitals, detailed accounts of the young man's murder circumstances of the background to the investigation of the case for which the young woman is demanding expedited proceedings and punishment of those involved.
The details of the case go back 4 years to the time when the girl's brother, Abdullah Khaled al-Harbi-LRB-18 years old-RRB-, and his friend were murdered on the first day of Eidul Adha 1423 H.
3 young men were accused of killing both, and were investigated.
Incriminating evidence was found despite denials by two of them and a confession to the crime by the third, according to the report prepared by colleague Safr Al-Azman and published by the Saudi paper " Al-watan ".
The girl said that the idea of the tape was born following failure to obtain response to her demands that the investigation proceedings be expedited and the accused tried.
She indicated that she had been working on the tape for about a year, writing its poems.
She also wrote stories based on the incident and backed them up with religious hymns, chosing " A Cry of Pain " as its title.
For his part, an unnamed source from the Public Investigation and Prosecutor's Board in the Eastern Province explained that the case in question had been brought before the authorities concerned after it was returned from the Hafr Al Batin Court, indicating that the case had the attention of both the Prince of the Eastern Province and his deputy and that they were following up on it.
The source disclosed that the case against the accussed had been re-opened following the formation of another high-ranking board that includes a number of investigators from the Ministry of the Interior who were moved to Central Investigation in the town of Dammam.
Say something good, or be silent.