The Saudi system acts arbitrarily away from the law
Asaad
I did not read the article.
=======
The annual report of the Committee for the Defense of Human Rights in the Arabian Peninsula :
6012007
London-Al-Quds Al-'Arabi " from Ahmed Al-masri :
In the opinion of the annual report issued by the Committee for the Defense of Human Rights in the Arabian Peninsula what facilitates the the Saudi system's abuses of human rights is the set of governmental administrative regulations that are not based on justice and equality, and which are a part of the state structure that is far removed from legal accountability, be it to independent international organizations or local civil groups.
This is what makes the system act arbitrarily.
The 2006 report on human rights abuses in the Arabian Peninsula prepared by the committee, criticized the Kingdom's lack of a constitution regulating the course of the country, stating that the Saudi regime missed a fundamental element on which any political system is based.
This element is the constitution which regulates the course of the country and the rights of the ruler and the ruled at various levels.
Thus far, there is no written constitution for the country.
It added that Saudi laws are not written down and are obscure, and despite the fact that the government's basic law deals with some of the main legal issues, nevertheless it is not a constitution.
The report also criticized the Kingdom's legal system, pointing out that the Supreme Judicial Council appoints judges, posts them and dismisses them, and that the Ministry of Justice also holds judges accountable.
It deemed that the judges are not independent and are subject to pressures from senior members of the ruling family and from senior government officials to influence their decisions.
Also, the members of the public and members of the royal family are not actually equal before the judicial system.
In its opinion the government has continued to commit serious violations.
The restrictions imposed on the media and the internet have also continued, as well as the repression of minorities, especially of the Shia and the Ismailis.
The government has continued to ignore the wish of the people for a responsible government which can be held accountable and questioned.
It accused the Kingdom of using the law as a repressive political weapon or tool against the society at a time when the aim of the law is to protect the individual's human rights from the power of the state.
In its opinion, the Saudi criminal justice system facilitates detainees being exposed to harm during the period they are in custody and under investigation, the reason for this being the lack of judicial supervision.
What makes the abuses increasingly grave is that the main arresting authorities, these being the public security forces, the public investigation forces and the religious police, do not fall under any judicial supervision.
The report stressed that one of the most important loopholes in the basic governing system is its failure to recognize the right to the freedom of expression and belief, and pointed out that the Saudi government does not allow political parties and puts stringent restrictions on the freedom of expression.
It brought to attention the fact that the number of citizens banned from traveling abroad for political reasons has exceeded 14 thousand.
It added that reports estimate an approximate 6 thousand Shiite citizens from the Eastern Region, Medina and Najran are banned from leaving the country.
Passports are being confiscated without a court order and there are many reasons for confiscation-from traveling to Iran to other unknown reasons.
The report indicated that the basic governance system does not recognize the right to peaceful assembly, considering that the Saudi regime puts all kinds of difficulties in the way of the religious, cultural and educational activities of the Shiites in the Kingdom.
The report accused the Saudi regime of banning Shiites from job opportunities in administration of public schools, adding that the government bans teaching any religious books in schools and universities that are not Hanabali and does not present any Shafii, Maliki or Shiite opinions as part of religious instruction.
It does not allow non-Hanabali clerics to teach their doctorines.
It pointed out that the government controls religious education and the public and private schools from basic through to the end of the university stages, where all the religious and history books are in accordance with the interpretation of the official doctorine.
It does not include any views of the other Sunni sects and the Shiites in the textbooks.
--
Riyadh of Nejd
Asaad, why do you specialize in copying everything that is against Saudi Arabia ?
Is this its reward for supporting the Palestinian people ?
Do you want her to rule with positivist law instead of God's book ?
These people will not be satisfied with us until we follow their denomination.
God have mercy on him whose faults have distracted him from seeing the faults of others.
God grant success to all.
The Rejoicer
I wish that you were more logical, my dear brother...
You downloaded the subject without reading as you mentioned, just because it is against Saudi Arabia.
I do not declare Saudi Arabia free from wrong-doing ; it has faults like others and we wish they would be eradicated.
But it is not good, my dear brother, if these are your positions, especially as you post good articles about the Palestinian issue and Hamas...
By doing this and quoting the buzzing of the Rafida and others causes the fair reader to react to the issues that you bring up and the subjects which you raise, and this reflects negatively on the subjects of beloved Palestine and Hamas..
By doing this you are transmitting an aversion, which you might not feel ; and aversion between all the Saudis and Hamas and Palestine.
The word is integrity.
Asaad
Upon you be peace and the mercy of God.
I download everything I find before me about Saudi Arabia in the Al-Quds Al-Arabi newspaper which is blocked on the Saudi internet, because the overwhelming majority of the readers of the forum are Saudi and they have the right to read.
So far the number of those who read this article has exceeded 1600 people.
You must not get upset about the copying of these articles, because you have the right to read those who praise you and those who curse you.
My position on Saudi Arabia is well-known, I have written praising it for its position towards the Palestinian people and their prime minister a number of times.
Sultan al-Hakr
Asaad : you specialize in defending the Rafida in Lebanon and other places.
Look at the evidence from your article, " as well as the repression of the Shia and the Ismaili minorities, "
" It added that reports estimate an approximate 6 thousand Shiite citizens from the Eastern Region, Medina and Najran are banned from leaving the country.
Passports are being confiscated without a court order and there are many reasons for confiscation-from traveling to Iran to other unknown reasons. "
" The report indicated that the basic governance system does not recognize the right to peaceful assembly, considering that the Saudi regime puts all kinds of difficulties in the way of the religious, cultural and educational activities of the Shiites in the Kingdom. "
This is also one of your articles which you copied to defame those you call Wahabis
http:alsaha.fares.netsahat?128@91.sd1NcTEBAaa.32@.3ba99db5.
Asaad : The Shia must submit to the constitution of the state in which they live and our constitution is Islam.
To write to me : http:sultan5.arabform.com
The one taking refuge in God
I have been following your writings for a while, Asaad..
And whenever I wanted to write a reply, I change my mind..
I want to know why most of your contributions are about Saudi Arabia only ?
As regards what you said about the reason for your copying of this news in your reply no. 3. Saudis and others can access this newspaper.. this is not a main and convincing reason.
I thank my brother, the Rejoicer, for his reply, he wrote what was on my mind.
-LRB-Fear God wherever you may be-RRB-.
It is very easy for us to use Islam, but it is very difficult for us to serve Islam.
alebda@msn.com
Yaser 1
" I download everything I find before me about Saudi Arabia in the Al-Quds Al-Arabi newspaper which is blocked on the Saudi internet, because the overwhelming majority of the readers of the forum are Saudi and they have the right to read. "
So according to you, you have opened us a window for fresh air ?
Brother Asaad, Atwan's newspaper is contaminated so be careful against continually passing on the anthrax disease, The jar wo n't survive each drop. Even if you were its correspondent and distributor, and of the articles of the mercenary Ahmed Al-Masri specifically.
It is also a nest of the haters from amongst the collaborators and the Khwarij who are being directed by hostile parties who do not want anything good for this country and its people.
We continually ask : what does London, the instigator of the Balfour Declaration, benefit from hosting to Atwan ?
What are his supernatural abilities that enable him to spend on his wretched newspaper, the circulation of which does not cover the cost of the ink !? Together with the costs of his accommodation, insurance, children and car.
It would be nice if you supplied us with a fiery article by Atwan against Tony Blair's statements on Iraq, which say that the war there is a sectarian war.
Man.. the likes of him who live in a country that gave away his homeland to the Jews ; this is the lowest degree of expressing loathing.
Our Lord ! Give us mercy from Thy presence, and shape for us right conduct in our plight..