Saddam's last days and what is said he was like
Bu Thari
What we know about Saddam Hussein in recent years is that he had changed a lot.
He had Islamic tendecies and acts which many Iraqis mentioned, saying that Saddam supported to a great extent the building of mosques centers for memorizing Koran, and charities, and the dancer's punishment was death.
He had many works.
But some explained his Islamic tendency by saying that he was currying favor with the Sunnis as if they were reading his mind.
I have followed Saddam Hussein, especially in recent years, and I noticed about him was that there was religion but there was injustice and coarseness.
And his punishment was unjust.
I mean, for example, the dancer would be killed after second offence.
I did not expect anyone to kill the dancer unless good would come of it, but like the most idiots his aim was correct but the method was wrong.
Another example-after his son Udai harmed the Iraqi people and attacked women and other matters, Saddam ordered him to be killed.
And in fact he was fired on but survived miraculously, after being hit with several fatal shots some of which hit his spine.
This is a sign that there was good in him otherwise he would not have ordered the killing of his son, his own child.
But he was not a scholar nor feared in God.
I myself heard from some people who were in Iraq about the things that Saddam Hussein used to do, and could not be reasonably done by anyone other than a good Moslem To the extent that many said of his actions that they were only to gain favor amongst the Sunnis and the religious.
But we judge by the appearances and his end was in line with the appearance.
In his last days during the fall of Baghdad and his disappearance, an old woman or man said on TV on al-Jazeera channel that he was hiding in her house and had had his prayer mat with him and was always praying and reading the Koran.
Do we say no, this is hypocrisy ?
Bear in mind that many have said that Saddam prayed regularly especially after he was put in prison by the Rafida and their masters.
Some of those who said that he was always praying and reading the Koran are the Christians who visited him in his prison cell.
Finally, during his hanging, the Rafida tried to distract him and keep him from saying the Creed before his death.
They were trying everything they could but we say that God made him steadfast for the whole world to see that he died acknowledging God.
The Rafida were shouting provocative words such as Muqtada and al-Sadr so that he would lose control and curse them, then they would have killed him.
So they could show the clip in which there is cursing and insults from Saddam and cut the rest.
However he remained steadfast in saying the creed and was killed whilst saying it.
I believe that this could n't have happened without God making him steadfast otherwise God would not have made him steadfast in it.
As one of the sheikhs says, many people when they were supposed to say the creed and were being dictated the creed by those present would murmur " Did love see drunkards ? "
Other people say, I have not said it while I was alive and you want me to say it when I am dying... the truth is what is apparent.
But Saddam Hussein was reasonable in that he repented and turned to his creator who receives the repentance from his slave.
And he committed himself to the worship of God. And remained loyal to God.
I ask God to have mercy on him and to forgive him and to give him an ample dwelling in his paradise and guide the rest of the Ba'thists.