Police and Investigation Authority Agreed to be Unjust to this SheikhHis Picture
Abd al-Rahman 2002
During the vacation of the blessed feast of Bairam for the year 1425 A. H., I traveled from Riyadh where I work to my relatives and family in Wadi al-Dawasir to spend my vacation with them happy and joyful.
I was not aware of what fate was hiding.
On Monday afternoon on 13121425 A. H., I went with my father and my eldest son to the Majid Organization to sell construction materials. Since my father is building a villa that belongs to me.
After we left the organization, we found a number of security men standing by my father's car.
When I asked them, they said that the car was wanted.
So my father ordered me to go in the car with them.
My father took the child to his home.
At the police station I found a captain named Butayhan Munir who ordered that I be arrested without asking me any questions.
I objected to that asking for information on why my father's car had been taken and the reasons for my arrest.
At this, the captain said " your father's car has been reported. "
I asked to see the report and I found that it was for a 98 or 99 model car without a plate number.
I explained to the captain and informed him that my father's car is a 2002 model and its plates are on it.
At this, the captain said that it was reported by a Sudanese.
Upon reviewing the report of the Sudanese I found that it was about a car whose model and plate number were not specified.
But the captain insisted on his position and quarreled with me and put me into detention.
At this, a call was made to the governor of Wadi al-Dawasir by my uncle on his mobile phone, " later my lawyer " thinking that he was at the Wadi, and an argument took place with him.
He called the captain and told him to put him into the cell and exert pressure on him till he confesses. Because they will raise a complaint against us, if his detention was without reason.
That evening after sunset, as soon as he received the phone call from the governor, the captain took me out of the group detention area.
He asked me to enter the cell and beat me with the assistance of the soldier Yahya Maghfouri.
I slapped Captain Butayhan on his face in return for his beating.
The captain stood up and lit his cigarette, and said, I will put it out in your eyes.
I said, you can not.
He took me into a dark cell with no water or electricity.
I did not know the know the direction of Mecca.
I remained in it for seven days without his asking me my name, or writing a record of my arrest.
Visitors were prevented from seeing me.
He kept my father's car for a year, without writing a confiscation order for it.
This was contrary to all the regulations issued by the ministry of the interior and by the government, and it is contrary to the system of criminal procedures issued by the monarchy, which require the interrogation of the detainee within 24 hours.
As soon as the captain received the order of the governor, everyone coordinated with Lieutenant Colonel 'Id Matar al-Nafi'i to bring his relative, the aforementioned person who filed the report.
They called him after sunset that night.
He was in Khamis Mashit.
They asked him to come to them immediately because the reported car had been seized. And the reported person had been arrested.
So he went quickly, as he was told to do.
At one o'clock at night " he came to the captain and the lieutenant colonel and they told him that I was wearing a green garment. "
The detainees were awakened.
He took me out of my cell and they brought their puppet veiled so he would not be recognized, because he knew that he was playing a nasty role.
He said hastily " the one in the green garment, " and they wrote down what they called an identification statement, which was nothing more than an allegation, if it were separated from all the conspiracy and fabrication that was obvious from the context of the story.
The conspirators felt confident with their plot.
A week later I was interrogated.
I denied everything I had been charged with.
Then they showed me to the Sudanese people who cleared me.
They showed them my father's car and they said it was not the one.
Then came two witnesses who were watching the chase between the car mentioned in the report of Saud al-Nafi'i and his car. The Caprice.
They testified that the car with which he had competed was a 98 model, according to his report.
They showed them my father's car and they testified that it was not the car they saw, so they released me.
We complained to the governor of Riyadh in a letter-LRB-a copy of the letter is attached in the letters and documents section-RRB-, hoping that the conspirators be held accountable and the dignity of the citizen would be preserved.
A committee was formed consisting of the following : Abdallah al-Majyul of the municipality of Riyadh, Brigadier General Faisal al-Mandil of the Riyadh Police Department, and Investigator Faisal al-Ijyan of the Riyadh branch of the General Investigation and Claims Board.
In our complaint we requested to include a member from the ministry of the interior and a member from General Security, but the governor of Riyadh asked that it consist of the aforementioned.
In deference to his wish, a page from the letter of complaint was replaced by another page.
The committee undertook its work on Saturday 1621426 A. H. The following is noteworthy :
1. Lieutenant Colonel 'Id Matar refused to appear before it.
His testimony was through the statement of the chief of police that he was coordinating with the representative of the Riyadh Police, Brigadier General Faisal al-Mandil.
2. The reporter Saud al-Nafi'i refused to appear before it.
3. Captain Butayhan and his other colleagues refused to appear together.
They insisted that the first would come, and then return to the police station, then the second one would come, and so on, so they could coordinate their answers.
4. The committee acceded to their wishes despite our objection.
5. The committee refused to let us see any of the documents of the proceedings and the charges filed against us.
6. The committee refused the request to impound the car of the reporter to confirm the truth about its collision and where exactly it was, especially since the documents of the proceedings are devoid of anything that proves that or proves that there was an accident, as the reporter alleged.
7. The committee refused to discuss with the reporter where he fixed the alleged damage to his car, or in what workshop.
Did he fix it in accordance with an official repair document according to the system, or not ?
Did he know who gave him the repair document ?
If he was given a document, the question is who gave it to him in violation of the system ?
8. The committee refused to discuss with the conspirators and the investigator whether they referred the car of the reporter to three workshops for estimates, in compliance with the rules.
And why did n't they do so, if they were telling the truth ? Especially since private as well as public rights are based upon it.
9. The committee refused to inspect the cell with us to confirm its unsuitability.
10. The governor made a lunch banquet for the honorable committee.
11. The next morning was designated for us to attend to discuss with the committee.
We thought that it would show us the answers of those it had questioned so that we could reply to them.
But we were surprised that it had left the day before for Riyadh.
On 2941426 A. H. the committee returned to Wadi al-Dawasir.
We appeared before it.
It did not open the investigation file and it did not show us anything in spite of our request and our informing it that this was our right according to the system of criminal procedures issued by royal decree.
It claimed that it would show it to us soon, especially the representative of the municipality of Riyadh who apparently was the one who held and controlled the documents of the proceedings.
My father requested the return of his car that had been impounded in violation of all laws and regulations.
It was not given to him and no order was issued to hand it over.
The committee left for Riyadh that day and that was the last time we saw of it.
At the beginning of the month of Dhu al-Qada 1426 A. H., the office of the head of the General Investigation and Prosecution Authority called me and told me that the head of the General Investigation and Prosecution Authority and the Authority's committee had fired me from my job and had issued that decision on the basis of the following two reasons :
1. Incompetence during the period of the experience.
2. Lack of trust and consideration.
It mentioned that it was based on the letter of the governor of the area of Riyadh, and that it was appropriate that I submit to the head of the General Investigation and Prosecution Authority my letter of resignation so that my reputation would not be tarnished by that decision and so that I would be able to work in my field, because that decision would bar me from employment in the future.
So I traveled to Riyadh and refused to submit my resignation because this would be submitting to injustice and arbitrariness no matter what the consequences.
Our reputation, thank God, is honorable, and we are acknowledged in the circles of our whole community, and by colleagues in study, professors, sheikhs, and others.
Rather, just the opposite.
This decision would harm my reputation and the integrity of those who issued it, and it would weaken the credibility of the organization which they supervise.
The job is not the main goal, and the doors of livelihood are wide.
Thank God we are affluent.
The noble person does not bend down even if he is poor.
So how about if he is really rich ?
My representative, the lawyer, met His Highness the Governor of Riyadh, Salman Bin Abdulaziz.
We objected to the conclusion reached by the committee.
We told him that we were complaining to him to find justice from him regarding those who were unjust to us, since he is the direct authority of those unjust people.
But unfortunately we were surprised that he committed a greater injustice upon us.
He told us :-LRB-If you want to leave the job then Farraj's job is with me, and you will be held against me.-RRB-
We said :-LRB-The results contradicted the facts of the proceedings. We were not informed until just now of the committee's final decision. What is needed is to halt the decision of dismissal, especially since it is based on your instruction, until we are given a copy of the committee's decision so we can respond to it.-RRB-
He called the head of follow-up and said :-LRB-Show them the proceedings.-RRB-
Then he said : " Give me what you have. "
We went to the head of follow-up, who said :-LRB-I do not have the proceedings, but they were issued.
We said :-LRB-You have the decision of the committee.
He gave us an appointment for the next day.
Then he refused to show us the decision of the committee and recited its results to us.
The results contradicted the facts of the proceedings and proved the truth of what we referred to in our main complaint.
So we submitted a letter to the governor of Riyadh in which we contested the committee and its decision, and we explained the reasons for that.
We stressed that the decision for dismissal should be halted.
-LRB-A copy of the letter is attached in the letters and documents section.-RRB-
He ordered the formation of a committee, according to what we were told.
It was explained that this committee was formed of the head of Follow-up Abdullah al-Qarni, the assistant deputy of the municipality, Dr. Ibrahim al-Subaihi, and two advisors of Salman, Faraj al-Asbali and Salih al-Dayf.
So far this committee has not reviewed the proceedings which is what it was supposed to do,
and Salman has not responded to our request to " halt the decision of dismissal " until the case is finally over.
Then the head of the General Investigation and Prosecution Authority submitted the decision of my dismissal-LRB-for my incompetence during the year of my tribulation and for my lack of confidence and respect-RRB-to the ministry of the interior to get approval for it while he had promised us to reconsider the decision of dismissal and that the issue was still with the committee.
We learned the untruthfulness of what he said.
So we submitted a letter to the minister of the interior-LRB-a copy of the letter is attached in the letters and documents section-RRB-in which we explained that the decision of dismissal violates the system, justice, and the truth since my alleged incompetence during the period of tribulation was answered and refuted by the performance report in which I received the grade of excellent with a percentage of 96,-LRB-a copy of the performance report is attached in the curriculum vitae section.-RRB-
And my alleged loss of trust and respect requires knowing the crime attributed to me. And whether or not it was a crime that entails loss of trust and respect as stipulated in the civil service regulations issued by decree of the cabinet and crowned with an order by the monarchy ?
It also requires knowing the final judicial verdict issued proving this crime.
Since all of this is incorrect and does not exist, it indicates the falsehood of this calumny.
The proceedings were returned to the head of the Authority with disapproval of the decision of dismissal because of its violation of the regulation.
When checking back with the head of the Authority he promised something good.
It became clear that he returned the proceedings secretly to the minister of the interior requesting approval of the decision of dismissal.
He refused to give us its number or its date, and he kept the issue a secret while he was promising it to us.
It was revealed that the proceedings were returned to him again. And that he justified his refusal of the previous instruction on the invalidity of the decision of dismissal which was according to the instruction of the governor of Riyadh and his insistence on my dismissal.
Then we found out that he had kept the previous decision and its proceedings including all the explanations in it, and issued a new decision through his committee terminating my services without mentioning a reason.
It was signed by the minister of the interior and it was submitted to the monarchy.
It turned out that the person who was refusing to approve the decision of the head of the Authority to dismiss me was His Highness the deputy Minister of the Interior.
Taking into consideration that since we knew that the head of the Authority had submitted the decision of dismissal to the minister of the interior, my lawyer tried to meet the minister of the interior more than once, but he was not able to.
He asked to make an appointment to meet with him and he was given an appointment for three months later.
Two days before the appointment he was notified of its cancellation without being given a new appointment.
He also tried to meet his assistant for security affairs but he could n't.
My lawyer presented to the minister of the interior our second letter-LRB-a copy of which is attached in the letters and documents section-RRB-.
It was referred to the head of the Authority with no outcome.
--------------
Abdul-Rahman2002 says if he were not a religiously committed young man would this conspiracy have been woven around him ?
Oh God, I presented my mother to you in your outstanding month.
You are Generous and Gracious, so honor her abode and make her final resting place good.
owgwo@yahoo.com
Al-Taghlabi al-Dusary
Ah my head ! I got a headache while I was reading I do not believe it at all.
Is this article the beginning of a tragic soap opera which will be broadcast in the coming winter days to force people to stay in their homes and get enthusiastic about this soap opera to forget this chilliness ?
Or is it a soap opera to demonstrate to the people the injustice in which they lived before the rule of the House of Saud over this good country ?
Or is it an actual picture in the country of monotheism and justice ?
The case apparently--God knows best--involves a biiiiiiiiig head.
God is greater than everything.
The case has hidden threads.
God knows best.
The case has something in it.
What it is I do not know !
The case has something in it which was not revealed to us.
They may be right in this or they may be first rate evil doers.
In general I 'll say you should do one thing.
If you go to Him and take refuge in Him your problem will be resolved.
Yes, it is God, the One and Only, the Glorious King of kings
Use the arrows of night.
They hit their target.