The hot dialogue... that went on between-LSB--LSB--LSB-Saddam Hussein and Rumsfeld-RSB--RSB--RSB-at the airport prison.
Collaborator
Details of the minutes of the meeting between Rumsfeld and Saddam Hussein at the Airport Prison...
Washington offers Saddam a television appearance to stop the Resistance in return for his freedom.
Baghdad-INA-from Aras An Nasiri
Minutes of the dialogue between Saddam and Rumsfeld from trusted American sources.
What follows is the text of the minutes
At the start of the conversation President Saddam appeared extremely calm.
Perhaps he was surprised that his guest was Rumsfeld, but he did not appear at all nervously tense.
Rumsfeld began the conversation by saying Rumsfeld : I came to meet you to negotiate the situation in Iraq ; we have made contact with some of your followers inside and outside Iraq, they have advised us to listen to you.
Saddam Hussein : So what do you want ?
Your forces have occupied the territory of the proud Iraq, you have brought down the governing regime without a legal support,
you have assaulted the sovereignty of an independent free sovereign country,
you have committed crimes which history will record against you as evidence of your blood-stained civilization.
So what do you want after all that ?
Rumsfeld-LRB-trying to suppress his anger-RRB-: What's past is past, I came especially to make you a clear and specific offer and I want to hear from you a clear and definite answer.
Saddam Hussein-LRB-mockingly-RRB-: I thought you had come to apologize and restore power to the Iraqis.
Rumsfeld : We have nothing to apologize for, you constituted a danger to your neighbors and tried to acquire weapons of mass destruction and practiced dictatorship over your people and so it was only natural that we extended our hand to the people of Iraq to rid them of the perils which had confronted them for more than three decades.
Saddam Hussein : I know that you are ignorant of history, and I know that your president is no less ignorant but it seems that you have continued to lie to the extent that you now believe yourselves.
If " by our neighbors " you mean the Zionist Entity then we did indeed form a danger, we were preparing to liberate our ravished territory in Palestine.
This is the wish of every Arab person and not just every Iraqi.
For this is Arab land and its people are Arab, and the Zionists are the ones who occupied the land and came to us from all over the world with your help, yours, and that of the old imperial powers.
But if you meant Kuwait, I want to ask you.
Did you withdraw from Kuwait or not ?
Rumsfeld : These are security issues.
Besides, there are security agreements between us and Kuwait and the other Gulf states... we came at their request to protect them from your threats.
Saddam Hussein : Is n't funny that the wolf is being entrusted with the sheep ?
The people of Kuwait are an Arab people.
And Kuwait is Iraqi territory, therefore I ask you to read history carefully, although I am certain that you wo n't comprehend it.
Rumsfeld : Stop from this drivel, I am offering you...
Saddam Hussein-LRB-interrupting-RRB-: Before you offer me your rotten goods, I ask you did you find weapons of mass destruction in Iraq or not ?
Rumsfeld-LRB-disconcerted-RRB-: We have n't found them yet, but we will surely find them one day.
Do you deny that you had intentions to manufacture a nuclear bomb ?
Saddam Hussein : We have had no weapons of mass destruction since 1991, we were truthful when we spoke with the international inspection mission, we were truthful in our letters to Kofi Annan, you knew these facts but you were looking for any pretext to occupy Iraq and topple its legitimate authority.
Rumsfeld : The Iraqis received us with overwhelming happiness and welcomed us, because of the practices of your bloody regime over the course of all those years in which you governed Iraq.
Saddam Hussein : Please, Mr Rumsfeld, enough lying.
You are the ones who have opened the floodgates to cascades of blood on the soil of Iraq, you plotted against us and got some traitors to take over power over the land of the great Iraq.
Rumsfeld : Those you are calling traitors have been chosen by the Iraqi people as their leaders by democratic means and free elections, something that did not take place during your rule over the country.
Saddam Hussein : I found out that you had come with a troop of traitors led by Talabani-LRB-laughs mockingly-RRB-.
Great Iraq is being ruled by Talabani and Jaafari.
Is n't this ridiculous ?
Then, which elections are you talking about ?
Is it permissible for what you call free elections to be held under your occupation of our country ?
Mr Rumsfeld, we have learned from history that the occupier will not bring except his assistants and lackeys, and you want, after all that, to convince me that the people of Iraq enjoy freedom and democracy ?
You are truly delusional.
Rumsfeld-LRB-barely able to contain his anger-RRB-: You are isolated and do not know the facts of what is happening on the outside.
The Iraqi people have been liberated from your oppression, if they saw you or any of your men in the street they would kill you.
Saddam Hussein : I challenge you to announce your location in Iraq if you can.
If the Iraqi resistance found out your whereabouts you would not be able to get out alive.
I want to give a word of advice to your " dumb " president, you must pass it on to him, and it is that he should save what is left of his soldiers.
Death surrounds them everywhere and history will not be merciful to him.
Rumsfeld : I came to talk with you about the terrorist operations which your men are instigating and carrying out.
Your men have recently carried out an ignoble operation aimed at the Abu Ghraib prison where they injured and killed more than fifty Americans and also killed a number of prisoners imprisoned under various charges.
Your men are employing terrorists from all parts of the world and they are threatening the democratic process in Iraq.
Saddam Hussein : What is it you want exactly ?
Rumsfeld : I am making you one offer, that you are released and choose for yourself a place of exile in any country you wish on the condition that you appear on television to announce your condemnation of the terrorism and to ask your men to stop these practices.
Saddam Hussein : Have you obtained the consent of your president to this offer ?
Rumsfeld : Yes, this offer was agreed to at a session in which the President, his deputy, the Secretary of State and the head of the CIA took part and I was commissioned to inform you of this offer.
Saddam Hussein : It is a very low price.
Rumsfeld-LRB-excited-RRB-: We are prepared to include elements close to you in power.
Saddam Hussein : And what else ?
Rumsfeld : We will offer you considerable financial assistance and will look after your and your family's security in the country you choose.
Saddam Hussein : Do you want to hear my conditions ?
Rumsfeld : Yes, that would be nice.
Saddam Hussein-LRB-in language beaming with pride and arrogance-RRB-I want you first of all.. to set me a timetable for the withdrawal from Iraq that your government will commit itself to it in front of the world, and for you to begin the withdrawal operation immediately.
I ask, secondly,.. for the immediate release of all the Iraqi and Arab detainees in the prisons you have set up or in those where you have shackled the freedom of tens of thousands of honorable Iraqis.
Thirdly, I ask you.. for the undertaking that full compensation will be offered for the material losses which the Iraqi people have suffered through your aggression on our country since the Mother of All Battles in 1991 until this present day.
I will accept the assistance of an international and Arab committee in estimating these losses.
Fourthly, I ask that you produce the money which your men looted from the treasuries of Iraq and its oil especially this criminal Bremmer and his henchmen from the traitors and renegades.
And, fifthly, I ask for.. the return of the antiquities which you have stolen and handed over to the antiquities mafia, for these are priceless treasures because they bear the history of Iraq and its civilization.
Your country is no older than a few hundred years.
True, you do not have neither a civilization nor history, but all that can not excuse your thefts and your hatred of Iraq's civilization and Iraq's riches.
Sixthly, I ask that you hand me the weapons of mass destruction if you have found them, bring back to life all the martyrs you have killed, and return the integrity of the glorious Iraqi women which you have robbed.
Rumsfeld : Is this some kind of joke ?
Saddam Hussein : No, this is just the bitter truth, which you know very well.
Mr Rumsfeld, you have committed the greatest crime in history against a peaceful Arab state.. we met each other in the eighties.
Do you remember your offers ?
Rumsfeld : Let us forget the past, we are in the process of re-evaluating our position on you and on the many forces which displayed hostility to us in the past.
We have decided to hold a dialogue with the moderate Islamists.
We have no objection to their arrival in power via the ballot box.
But more importantly, we have decided to open channels of dialogue with " terrorist " organizations such as Hamas and Jihad and Hezbollah who are loyal to Iran, and other fundamentalist organizations in the whole world.
And we even have a project to get in touch with the Taliban movement in Afghanistan to discuss its participation in power in return for disarming.
Saddam Hussein : Then you have begun to re-think your mistaken methodology.
Rumsfeld : It is a natural development of things, we are trying to spread democracy to all countries and all autocratic movements.
Saddam Hussein : You would be successful if you would tell the truth.
I know the reality of your goals.
If you were really sincere you would begin straightaway, you and your allies, to withdraw from Iraq, and you also have to back down from your position of supporting Israel.
I know that your president is stubborn and obstinate and not sincere.
Rumsfeld : He is a democratically elected president and not a bloodthirsty ruler like you.
Saddam Hussein : Terrorism is your trade and deceit your method.
Rumsfeld : This proposal is an historic chance for you.
We will release you and will consult with you in everything concerning governance issues in Iraq.
If you reject this offer then the opportunity will not be repeated.
Saddam Hussein : I am not looking for opportunities, I am not looking for a way to save my neck from the gallows which you have set up for the whole of Iraq.
If I wanted that I would have accepted the Russian offer and saved my two sons and my grandson from martyrdom.
I do not know what the fate of my family and my daughters and grandchildren is, but be sure that I am concerned for every Iraqi citizen and the future of the Great Iraq more than I am concerned with myself and my family.
You have previously made me an offered before this through your men that I say the weapons of mass destruction were smuggled to Syria, and you said that the price was my release.
I refused and I repeat the refusal once again.
Rumsfeld : I do not want a refusal from you, I want you to think about it.
We are currently re-evaluating our positions, we want to stop the bloodshed on both sides and so our offer is made from the point of strength and not from the point of weakness.
We asked Jalal Talabani to make a statement in which he denies any intention to execute you as a sign of good will from us.
We are ready to review our position completely on the entire political process in Iraq and we will hold a dialogue with you and with your men on this matter.
Saddam Hussain : Are you ready to withdraw or not ?
Rumsfeld : We could discuss re-deployment, our forces have prepared bases for long-term stay.
We could withdraw from the streets and the towns but we will stay in the bases for a some time.
Saddam Hussein : Then you want a new lackey to be added to this queue of lackeys.
No Mr. Rumsfeld.. do n't forget that you are speaking with Saddam Hussein, the president of the state of Iraq.
Rumsfeld : But you have lost power.
Saddam Hussein : I have only honor left and honor can not be sold or bought.
Rumsfeld : But life has a value that is priceless.
Saddam Hussein : There is no value to a life without honor, and you robbed Iraq of its honor when you desecrated its land.
We will get our honor back whether Saddam Hussein survives or becomes a martyr.
Rumsfeld : Your followers with whom we entered into a dialogue have told us that the decisions will be yours, first and last.
Were they expecting your reaction ?
Saddam Hussein : For sure, they know that Saddam Hussain can not back down at the expense of his nation and its honor.
Rumsfeld : History will hold you responsible for the blood which is being spilled in Iraq.
Saddam Hussein : On the contrary, history will judge you because of your crimes..
I warned you in advance when I said to you that you will commit suicide on the walls of Baghdad, and here you are paying the price.
I ask you to go to London and read the records of the British Foreign Office to find out some of the characteristics of the struggle of the Iraqi people against your British friends whose mistakes you are repeating and making them participate with you.
The Iraqi people are an obstinate people and do not fear death... the Resistance is stronger than you imagine and therefore I predict there 'll be more.
End of the text of the meeting minutes... the source
May your steps in doing good be like someone walking on sand... he makes no sound but his tracks are obvious.
MOTAAWEN@HOTMAIL.COM
Over the sun
http:alsaha.fares.netsahat?128@96.GdrOcqF3AIR.21@.3ba9a044
Details of the minutes of the meeting between Rumsfeld and Saddam Hussein at the Airport Prison.
The Amateur
Rumsfeld : We have nothing to apologize for.
You were a danger to your neighbors and tried to acquire weapons of mass destruction.
And you practiced dictatorship over your people.
and so it was natural that we extended our hand to the people of Iraq to rid them of the perils which had confronted them for more than three decades.
And did Rumsfeld free Iraq from dangers ?
He is really delusional...
I have reservations about what appeared in these minutes... because I think it unlikely that what happened at that meeting would leak out this easily...
And I do not believe that Rumsfeld would meet Saddam unless Saddam himself made signs... the important thing is that the expression quoted above tells of a reality that can not be but accepted...
May God the Great forgive me.
Collaborator
My brother, Over the Sun. I apologize for repeating the article, and thank you for participating.
May your steps in doing good be like someone walking on sand... he makes no sound but his tracks are obvious.
MOTAAWEN@HOTMAIL.COM
Cooperator
My brother Amateur Thank you for participating.
May your steps in doing good be like someone walking on sand... he makes no sound but his tracks are obvious.
MOTAAWEN@HOTMAIL.COM
Qais the Son of His Father
The Martyr of the Nation, God is his protector and we do not recommend anyone above God, ascended up the gallows walking straight, not with a bowed head, and he was treated to what-LRB--LRB-the lackeys-RRB--RRB-witnessed.
He disdained death and was not bothered by it, challenging the provocations of the imperialist donkeys with full self-control, repeating the words " There is no God but God and Mohammed is the messenger of God. "
After the sentence was carried out and his body was dangling in the air, his shoes were above the heads of the scum, the imperialist donkeys, those on whose backs the people of the cross are riding and who share the trenches with them to carry out the most despicable, vile and contemptible crime the Islamic world has know in our current age.
.
-LRB--RRB-
Exalted in life and in death **** verily, you are one of the miracles
As if the people around you when they rose up **** delegations at your call in the days of prayer.
As if you are standing amongst them addressing-**** and all of them are standing to pray
You extended your hands towards them in welcome **** just as you extended them towards them with gifts.
When the bowels of the Earth became too tight to-**** confine your exaltedness after Death They made the air your tomb and they exchanged-**** for the shrouds the gown of the sandy winds
For Your Greatness in our souls grows and is tended-**** by guards and trustworthy confidents
May the Compassionate rain his blessings on you-***** with mercies passing to and fro
The Emirati
Saddam Hussein : I have nothing left but honor and honor can not be bought and sold.
The Collaborator
My brother Qais, the Son of his Father, I thank you for your post and the addition, may God take care of you.
May your steps in doing good be like someone walking on sand... he makes no sound but his tracks are obvious.
MOTAAWEN@HOTMAIL.COM