Very urgent...-LRB-new-RRB-film of Saddam... after the torture by the Rafida-LRB-the throat cutting-RRB-!!!
Ibn al-Faqeer
Upload the film.
The operating program.
A film depicting the vileness the Rafida reached in dealing with Saddam... cutting his throat by kicking him in his face, may they be cursed by God.
Please publish the film on the satellite channels so that everyone will know how cowardly these bastards are.
The film is a copy of the film which was taken after his execution on the morning of the blessed Eid.
From the Moslem picture archives, his heart was ripped out by the Rafida.
Here we are saying good-bye to another year... what a pity that we were negligent in it.
Abu Dilama
The film can be found on the following links in the avi format and it can be played using the Real Player program.
The size of the file is = 3 mb
We ask our brothers and sisters to upload the film to other sites... because of its importance.
---
http:z12.zupload.comdownload.php?file=getfile&filepath=6894
---
http:www.furk.netnewsadam.avi.html
For correspondence :--
alisau@gmail.com
Abu Dilama
Google is broadcasting a new video recording of Saddam's corpse after his execution.
A new video recording depicting the corpse of the late Iraqi president Saddam Hussein after his execution on the morning of the first day of the Eidul Adha was broadcasted Monday evening on the Google Internet website.
The video shows Saddam Hussein lying covered on a stretcher whilst the camera closes on him.
Then the covering is removed from his face which has traces of blood on it in addition to a deep wound on his neck.
The video also plays voices of those next to the corpse speaking to each other.
One of them says " quickly " apparently asking the person who is filming to do it quickly.
Someone is calling to another man in a loud voice saying.. " Abu Ali, Abu Ali.. you will be responsible " for the matter " before the tone of his voice starts to rise in a way suggesting that he is under pressure because the filming is taking too long.
The clip does not last longer than half a minute and is the second one being broadcast unofficially on the Internet following the film taken on a mobile phone last week which recorded the execution of Saddam and depicted insults and repeated Shiite slogans by those who attended his execution.
The film link--http:www.liveleak.comview?i=c5daa5b733
For correspondence :--
alisau@gmail.com
Ibn al-Faqeer
Why did n't this appear in the media--
Tonight I 'll list the two films of the Rafid dervish, Moqtada, for everyone to get to know him up close.
Thank you for your visit.
Here we are saying good-bye to another year... what a pity we have been negligent in it.
Ibn al-Faqeer
Thanks be to God alone, Yasmine, that He made easy the circulation of such evidence which shows the hate of the Safawiya... and who will follow the fate of their first grandfather, God permitting.
May God answer your prayer in the very near future, God willing.
Thank you for your visit and your comment.
Here we are, saying good-bye to another year... it is a pity we have been negligent in it.
Ibn al-Faqeer
May God hear you, brother gwardyola..
And the large army of infidels, by God's leave, will be butchered on the banks of the Tigris and in Victorious Baghdad.
Thank you for visiting.
Here we are saying good-bye to another year... it is a pity we have been negligent in it.
Zamzam
Please stop !.
We are all against the way he was killed and against the Safawites but enough bullcraping that he is the sheikh of the God fearing ones..
Click on this link..
And watch films your Sheikh produced !
http:www.pukmedia.comarabicnews6-1news33.htm
Faiz al-Arabi
Thank you for the site, my brother Zamzam,, thanks be to God who destroyed the oppressors by the oppressors.
This is my personal opinion and is not binding on anyone.