The success of al-Jazeera and the failure of Hebrew, the film " The Death Squads " for downloading.
The Source of the Word.
The al-Jazeera channel broadcasted the film " The Death Squads " with subtitles, as it was previously shown on the British Channel 4.
In this film the role of the Shiites in our beloved Iraq becomes clearer.
The Hebrew channel, I meant the Al-Arabiya channel, did not dare, to broadcast this film or even mention it and the reasons are famously unknown..
This is a unique precedent for al-Jazeera..
There are many questions, amongst them the timing of its being shown at this very time, following the conflict in interests between the Sons of Monkeys and Pigs and the Sons of Temporary Marriages...
I leave you with the film which saddens the heart and makes it bleed....
the link to the film..
http:z08.zupload.comdownload.php?...filepath=48993
The Islam Diary : A leader of the Shiite death squads in Sadr City, east of Baghdad, acknowledged that the Mahdi Army militia was involved in killing operations of Arab Sunni men after kidnapping them, despite their relatives having paid the blood money demanded by the hostage-takers in return for their being freed.
Speaking at the same time about an Iranian role in the financing and support of the war of genocide against the Sunnis. " Fadil ", a commander in the Mahdi Army tells how he had followed three Arab Sunni men for a period of some weeks and detained them when they were crossing the Karada bridge, after having informed an Iraqi army road block close to the area that he was pursuing " terrorists ", then attacked the car of the group in question.
He also told the British Guardian that he took the three men to Sadr City where his group had interrogated them then executed them, indicating that the members of the Mahdi Army usually demanded a ransom from the families of the hostages in return for freeing their relatives, and would liquidate them anyway after they receive the ransom.
The newspaper quoted another commander in the Mahdi Army as saying ; " We have taken 10 Sunnis hostages, we will get a ransom for five of them, then we will kill them all. In every major hostage-taking operation we get 50 thousand dollars, " and he considered it to be the best business a person could be running in Baghdad now !
The newspaper described " Fadil " as a valuable commander to this squad because he is a Shiite who grew up in the Sunni area south of Baghdad.
He speaks in the Sunni dialect and carries an identity card from the Yusufiyah Sunni village.
He was quoted as saying : " I can enter the Sunni areas without anyone knowing that I am a Shiite. "
It pointed out that Fadil and the likes are responsible for the dozens of corpses which are being found daily in Baghdad.
This means that the Baghdad security plan will not be successful unless the Americans control squads such as these to put breaks on the civil war.
" Fadil " was quoted as saying that the Mahdi Army is resorting in its operations to reinforcements from Iraqi army units commanded by its members or sympathizers, and confirmed that all the police belong to the Shiite militia.
He added that the Mahdi Army is receiving logistic and military support from Iran and that they are not encountering any problems in getting weapons through to Sadr City because they usually present a letter to each of the checkpoints they pass through.
Son of the Interior
" The Al-Jazeera channel is superior to the Al-Arabiya in many areas " " even though it has some bad faults "
" ______________ al-Mu'tasim ____________ "
Abu Bakr al-Razi
I swear !!!!!
You are like a Zubairi Chairman of the Club
-LSB-QUOTE
You are like a Zubairi-LSB-quote-RSB-
Source of the Word
God bless you, my brother, Son of the Interior
As for it being superior, it is superior to the Hebrew, I mean the 'Arabiya channel and there is no competition between them.
It is the best one at conveying the incidents on the ground in Iraq, and has not covered many of the facts.
As regards some of the faults they are many-especially its view of Saudi Arabia..
As we have said this is a unique precedent for it...
The Glare
Brother Source of the Word, a very good morning to you.
This Zionist-American and Safavid evil triangle has nothing else to do but put an end to the Sunnis and the Book so that there is no one to resist them.
But however much they try, Baghdad will remain, by God's decree, the capital of the Islamic caliphate.
It will return, God permitting !
The victories of the Mujahideen are obvious and America and its Safavid henchmen are no longer able to hide this fact.
God be praised and blessed and we ask Him the Almighty on high to empower the Mujahideen to be victorious and strong ; He has the power and ability to do so.
Unique of His Kind
My brother Source of the Word. The truth is that I saw the film and it was really terrifying to the extent that I thought I was watching a fictional film... because I could not imagine the extent of the Safavid hatred and criminality.
Despite what I had already imagined regarding their hatred and criminality nevertheless I did not imagine them reaching this level of hatred and criminality.
Al-Jazeera deserves every appreciation for showing this film to the Arab viewer.
But as for the Al-Arabiya channel, as long as al-Rashed is its director I wash my hands of it completely.
Greetings.
Abu Juri
Permit me to differ.
The Al-Arabiya channel in a short time has pulled the rug out from under the lying al-Jazeera channel.
If the al-Jazeera channel has, as you say, shown a tape about the Shiites then it, in contrast, has not presented more important tapes about the treacherous government of Qatar.
The last of these tapes or news is Peres ' visit to Doha and the warm reception which he and his delegation enjoyed.
There is no channel without faults.
But Al-Arabiya is the best of them and it is more credible than Al-Jazeera whose first aim, as we all know, is to attack Saudi Arabia and to interfere in our country's affairs, even the private ones.
I wish, even if it was only once, to watch one of those al-Jazeera's programs in which there is a lot of shouting and fighting, talking about the Al-Udeid Base, or the Israeli trade office and what the Israelis are doing exactly.
There are hidden matters in the state of Qatar and its government.
But Al-Jazeera tries to cover up these failings by attacking other states and governments.
Source of the Word
Try again perhaps we can understand what you wrote...
Source of the Word
By God's will I have just understood it.
Source of the Word
May God grant you long life, my esteemed brother Glare.
You are right in what you wrote.
And victory is coming by God's leave.
Salem
Neither Al-Arabiya nor Al-Jazeera--
How I wish success to the Al-Majd channels, as they are truly the most pure and credible media channels on the face of the Earth.
As for the rest of the channels they serve dubious agendas.
If they hit the spot once they miss a thousand times.
Son of the Interior
"!!" we have al-Razi here ; who is his equal "!!"
" A scholar and a genius, an inventor and discoverer "
" Abu Bakr ! You said nothing new "
" _______________ Al-Mu'tasim _________ "
the Source of the Word.
May God grant you long life, my brother Unique, welcome back !
The Al-Arabiya started as a rival to Al-Jazeera but it failed and the reason is famously unknown... you find it in the word Hebrew
And so the news started and the competition was won with make-up and women's concerns.
May you stay in good health..