The most dangerous agreement that disinherits Iraq from its oil resources is being signed whilst the world is occupied with the execution of the presi-
The Killer of the Killed
The most dangerous agreement that disinherits Iraq from its oil resources is being signed whilst the world is preoccupied with the execution of the Iraqi president Saddam Hussein.
The timing of the American administration's decision to deliver Saddam Hussein to the gallows to coincide with the announcement by the deputy prime minister Barham Salih of the endorsement of the new draft bill on oil resources aroused interest.
The announcement raised fears that the implementation of the death sentence might be used to cover the issue of oil at this time.
The draft of the law was formulated in complete secrecy, away from Iraqi public opinion.
The draft has been in the possession of the American government for some months according to what the US Secretary of the Treasury said during his visit to Baghdad last autumn.
Furthermore, the Baker-Hamilton report about US policy in Iraq stressed that on pressuring to get the new bill issued.
It seems that the endorsement by the US government of the draft bill on the exploitation of the Iraqi national oil resources is much more important to the Iraqi government than showing the draft to the Iraqi people and having it debated by their independent organizations, its intellectuals, its professionals and the general public.
Unfortunately, the government is concerned with consultations behind the scenes with the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank and with the American advisers more than it is interested in bringing about the right climate inside Iraq for exhaustive discussions ending with a calm decision in the interests of the nation.
If this climate was impossible in the light of the Occupation and the savage terrorism circumstances and in the light of the lack of the state's sovereignty, it would be wiser to postpone the issuing of a new bill incompatible with the precepts of the national oil policy, which has been in existence for half a century, until a time when conditions are suitable for a serious debate and for a wide-scale public participation in the formulation of any serious decision to be taken in this sphere.
However, the government seems subject to the United States ' dictates that have expressed in various ways its insistence on handing over the Iraqi oil resources to foreign companies as one of the main aims of the Occupation.
The government of the previous prime minister, Ibrahim al-Jaafari, made an undertaking to the International Monetary Fund to issue a comprehensive law governing the exploitation of oil resources by the end of 2006, in preparing for soliciting foreign corporate investment in the Iraqi oil industry with long-term contracts.
Exploration and Joint Production contracts adopted by the new draft bill grant companies immunity from other national laws.
It is well-known that the law drafting peddled by the international " houses of expertise " and organizations such as the World Bank market are usually loosely worded and weak, relegating details of the relationship to the sphere of drawing up contracts between foreign companies on one hand and the government on the other as equal sides.
This takes us back to something like the framework of concessions which were abolished in different oil-producing countries by the nationalizations in the seventies with some important exceptions that relied on the then government's negotiating ability.
This is what arouses worry at the time of Occupation and in the light of the general collapse, the prevalence of corruption and narrow interests, and in the light of the torn national unity.
The issuing of the new oil bill at the present time represents an introduction to the privatization of the main part of the national oil resources in accordance with the conditions drawn up by the Occupation and the International Monetary Fund.
It is not in the interest of Iraq to submit to these conditions under threat and intimation of demands for the former regime's debts.
The Occupation has brought Iraq nothing but destruction and corruption and it is impossible to confront except by the strengthening the internal front and the position defending the nation's rights.
Much journalistic noise was raised abroad about the subject of the oil and the distribution of its revenues to the different areas of Iraq.
This is a cause for caution, because the subject is dealt with on the basis of sectarian or ethnic ownership of the oil revenues, at a time when the question of public participation in the oil revenues is a matter almost decided in the constitution despite the deliberately obscure wording of its paragraphs.
It is clear that the agreement of the current regime forces occurred on the basis of general participation in the oil resources according to the proportion of the population in the regions.
Even the two Kurdish national parties know that the greater part of the resources is situated in the South and that their guarantee of obtaining a high level of the revenue will only happen through the sharing of Iraqi resources as a whole.
As such, the exclusion of an area or another is not the main question.
The fact is that the oil revenues are still passing through " The Iraq Development Fund " under the supervision of the United Nations and the United States in accordance with the Security Council resolutions and, consequently, any agreement between the central government and the regions about the distribution of oil revenues will be subject to the guarantee of the US hegemony.
The subject of oil from a sectarian or regional point of view was not presented except as a cover for the important main questions about the oil policy, these being Firstly : the abrogation of Act 80-LRB-1961-RRB-and its cancellation, by successively handing over unexploited oilfields and areas to foreign companies on the basis of long-term participation in production contracts, instead of developing them nationally by supporting the national oil companies and making use of foreign expertise through short-term service contracts that would leave the wealth in Iraq's hands. Secondly : the weakening of the Iraq's negotiating power by weakening the centralization of contracting for the national resources with foreign companies and the instruments of such contracting ; not distinguishing between the need to expand the administrative powers of the companies and institutions on the one hand, and the need for the centralization of the major national economic decisions on the other.
It is illogical for the decision about a specific oilfield to be made centrally and the decision on another oilfield to be made locally, as this mixes jurisdictions and divides power solely at the expense of public interest.
The privatization of the oilfields and new oil areas weakens the currently existing national oil industry.
The issue is not just that of the provision of financial capabilities for investment in the national sector or lack of them, but extends beyond that to reliance on policies for developing Iraqi technological and administrative capacities instead of relying on foreign companies.
Technology does not develop in isolation from the ability to make decisions and in isolation from its relation with society and its institutions.
Foreign companies can come and go without any advanced technology establishing itself in the country.
What is therefore needed is a national oil industry, including a national private sector offering technical oil services, and this is what was not developed during the previous regime and what will hamper it as well is the reliance on foreign companies.
Fourthly : achieving an integrated oil policy in regards to the exploitation of the national gas resources and linking it with the production of electricity, oil refining, the development of different petrochemical industries, and industries reliant on intensive energy use.
On this basis, one must caution against companies that try to invest in the production of crude oil without being prepared to invest in the associated and complementary industries.
Iraq suffered a lot from this situation before nationalization.
Fifthly : the crude oil production sector is not just that of the production fields, but that of facilities and complex production services and of cargo and transport services that require a wide inter-governorate network in which different production units in the country participate.
This requires a national oil policy.
Practical experience shows that following the market system in the sphere of public facilities is an extremely difficult administrative matter and failure in it is almost certain.
It is better to keep these facilities under public administration in all circumstances, and work to develop the administrative capabilities.
A unified national policy is an unavoidable necessity, and regressing on it would compromise national interests.
Sixthly : Break the relationship between oil and national economic development, because bringing up the question of distribution equity on the basis of dividing oil revenues among the regions in accordance with population ratios is a concept to a large extent incompatible with that of exploiting oil resources for development.
The important thing is to move towards investment in a way that will encourage the unemployed production capacities, and that will provide the necessary conditions for an effective, private national activity, not one that relies fully on deals and contracts with the government, whether local or central.
This kind of developmental activity can not be based in a single region or governorate ; instead it requires coordination in accordance with a general national program.
The important thing is not the equitable distribution of investment but the equitable and fair distribution of the benefits of the investment.
As we know, most of the financial investments made by the Reconstruction Council were in the northern region but the most significant impact of its benefits was on other areas.
This was also the case with many of the investments in the seventies, as the greatest part of the major oil and industrial projects, the oil projects and the ports are in the southern region.
Nevertheless, the benefits would have encompassed all if it was n't for the destruction that resulted from the wars started by Saddam Hussein.
The most important thing then is integration and striving to provide the minimum level of basic needs in terms of food, accommodation, education and health for all the citizens without discrimination.
It is unreasonable for us to seek solutions to the electricity problem for each governorate, or that we have local water policies in Mesopotamia.
Seventh : discussions are to be held about the cash distribution of part of the oil revenue,
and this too will not lead to equity, nor to development and attaining public interest.
It is well known that the notion of the individual cash share from oil revenues is an alternative to the provisions ration, and not a supplement to it.
On the other hand, the effect of this change on inflation and on the extent the minimum level of basic needs would be provided for the poor sectors will be negative, and will have inherently harmful economic effects in the present period due to the lack of conditions for productive economic activity.
Also making this change could provide an additional opportunity for corruption in implementation.
The idea is drawn from the experience of the US State of Alaska, and it means moving away from public investments even in the vital sectors, as it is an alternative to providing electricity, water, health services and public education at affordable conditions and prices.
Finally, oil policy will be an important part of the Iraqi national state reconstruction and its rise from the present destruction.
The invitation is going out to all Iraqi patriots of various political and social hues who believe in the current political process and those who are outside it, and to the local and civil community in general, to reject the idea of a new oil bill being issued at the present time and for it to be postponed for at least a full year to start the debate about the future of the oil policy that stresses peace and the ending of the occupation as the basic requirements for a national oil policy.
As for bringing up hopes of speedy prosperity by accelerating production using foreign companies, that is a mirage as the companies will not come except under favorably secure conditions.
Also, the main economic problems in Iraq currently do not lie in the diminished oil revenue, but in the occupation, the security situation, the widespread corruption and theft, the dissolution of the state, the loss of the oil resources and the breakdown of economic activity.
How similar is present to the past.
The responsibility lies in particular on the shoulders of the members of the current National Assembly, notwithstanding their loyalties, and they must ask themselves : if the Kuwaiti National Council has been opposing for years the foreign oil investment project in Kuwait, and if Saudi Arabia and Iran are still holding to the nationalization of oil in their countries, are they ready to revoke Act No. 80 ?
1st_top
75 % of Iraqi oil to foreign companies and 25 % to Iraqis.
This is what the Americans want and after that they destroy what remains of the nation.
My greetings.