Officials and the people.
613305
Huolianguang.
Officials say the people are whom they depend on for livelihood, while the people call officials public servants.
Officials have meals to supplement nutrition, while the people have meals to fill their stomachs.
Words from officials are instructions, while words from the people are comments.
Children of officials are ten-thousand gold daughter, while children of the people are girls.
Officials move to exchange, while the people move to emigrate.
Officials drink liquor without buying, the people buy liquor without drinking.
Officials receive gifts on New Years and holidays, while the people give away gifts on New Years and holidays.
Officials living on the third floor indicate they are among the people, the people living on the top floor indicate people's interests are the priority.
Eating and drinking by officials are called business and receptions, while eating and drinking by the people are called extravagant and wasteful.
Officials who go to dancing clubs are getting close to people, while the people who go to dancing clubs are neglecting their duties.
Officials go out to travel, while the people go out to make a living.
Officials go to school to update knowledge, while the people go to school to grab a diploma ;
Officials travel around to inspect, while the people travel around to lead a vagrant life.
Officials enter the government office to work, while the people enter the government office to petition.
Officials beat others to keep the society stable, while the people beat others to disrupt the social order.
All officials want to lose weight, while all the people are short of calcium.
Officials go to the countryside with a big entourage, while the people go to petition all alone.
Officials look forward to the New Year, while the people are worried about holidays.
Officials strike the table when they fly into a rage, while the people strike the table when they attempt a crime.
Officials ' children want to go abroad, while the people ' kids want to go to school.
Officials bask in the sun to enjoy a sun bath, while the people rest in the shade to enjoy a carefree life.
Officials go to the countryside to experience life, while the people go to city to open their eyes wide.
Officials fear the people petition, while the people fear officials press for grains.
Officials make mistakes that are pardonable, while the people make mistakes on purpose.
Officials have a concubine to share joy with people, while the people play with street girls to go whoring.
Officials make a fortune that is called gray income, while the people have money that is called illegal gains.
Violation of law by officials is called an error, while violation of law by the people is called a crime.
Officials short of money are integral, while the people short of money are impoverished.
Officials work their heart out if they are ill, the people experience a natural and man-made disaster if they are ill.
Officials are immortal when they die, while the people get out of misery when they die.