A Skin Care Nut-Whitening.
Beauty lover
In terms of whitening, I prefer the essence in the NeoTime gift set.
The bottle of essence itself is merely a kind of moisturizing lotion, but it comes with a complimentary bottle of L-Ascorbic acid dry powder.
My way is to take a small bottle of 25 ml to pour the essence in, add a little L-Ascorbic acid dry powder, and shake well.
The homemade whitening lotion like this will be consumed in about a week, and the same method is used to make more.
I have read relevant information that L-Ascorbic acid oxidizes easily after it dissolves in the water.
It will lose the whitening effect once oxidized.
So, make-and-consume can ensure what I use are the unoxidized whitening contents, which are pretty effective.
What's more, this is a very cheap way of use.
NeoTime sells for over 300 a set, including day cream, night cream and essence, of which a bottle of essence lasts for two to three months if used my way.
It is a bit more affordable than the Vitamin C whitening products that cost several hundred.
Actually, I have used SKII products.
If I'm not financially constrained, I like to use SKII goddess fluid.
The skin was in a good state after use.
However, I heard recently that some contents in SKII do harm to the skin over time, and so I dare not use any more after a second thought.
Anyway, my skin now is very good without using it.
I do n't like wearing makeup, facing the sky everyday with bare skin.
This is because my former boyfriend said he liked me because I did n't wear makeup.
Upon hearing this, I suddenly realized it turned out no men liked their girlfriend wearing makeup.
Therefore, I practically do n't buy any makeups and never use blush or eyeshadow, apart from buying some lightening makeup base for use as sun screen.
I do n't know if everyone agrees with this.
Anyway, I feel very easy on the face without makeup, no need to be careful everywhere.
I feel uncomfortable with lip color, which makes me careful even if I'm just drinking water.
Click for more detailed information : www.120zy.com.