Guo Kai's Economics Notes : Six Cachets !
Guo Kai's Economics Notes
I took the subway to meet someone at the railway station today and found a red header document posted everywhere inside the subway station.
A closer look told me it was the notice about public transportation price adjustment in Beijing.
I did n't care about the details because the news had been heard for a while.
What attracted me was the six red cachets below the notice, respectively Development and Reform Commission, Education Commission, Social Security Bureau, Financial Bureau, Traffic Commission and Transportation Administrative Bureau.
I know roughly the reason why the cachets of the former four organizations are required.
Development and Reform Commission is the organization in charge of prices.
Education Commission and Social Security Bureau correspond to the population on whom this policy may have relatively greater impact on.
Financial Bureau is the organization providing the fund.
I do n't know what kind of organizations Traffic Commission and Transportation Administrative Bureau are.
I even do n't know why these two organizations are not a single organization-Judging from the name, it seems that Transportation Administrative Bureau could be a division of Traffic Commission definitely.
However, now that the subway does have something to do with traffic and transportation, there is nothing strange with the appearance of the cachets of these two departments.
Then, what surprised me ?
When I saw these six cachets, my first reaction is that it is absolutely hopeless to rely on the government itself to control institutional thickening.
There must be a reason for a bloated government.
Look, I found out the reason for these six cachets with the slightest effort.
However, I am totally an outlier.
It is much easier for these governmental departments to find an excuse for their existence, is n't it ?
And their excuses are always affirmative, and always for the interests of the common people.
The existence of governmental departments is different from the existence of private institutions.
Private institutions spend their own money, and too much expansion will make them suffer loss.
What governmental departments spend is taxpayers ' money.
Regardless how much is spent, as long as the amount is not ridiculously large, they will never face the risk of loss and closing down
They themselves can find excuses for thickening without worrying about the problem of money.
What kind of excuses governmental institutions have will prevent thickening ?
I can hardly figure it out.
Of course, I do n't have any objections against this downward adjustment of public transportation prices, but those six cachets are really too striking.