I am grateful to the University of Science and Technology
huff
Poster : huff-LRB-Brigade chief-RRB-, section : Overseas.
Topic : I am grateful to the University of Science and Technology
Posting station : BBS Unnamed space station-LRB-Tue Jan 2 12:18:26 2007-RRB-, Forward.
Everybody has their own reasons for choosing a university ; because the cost of living in Hefei is cheaper, and I did n't want my parents to spend all their money, I chose the University of Science and Technology of China.
Years later, looking back on this choice, I certainly do not have any regrets.
Perhaps if I 'd chosen two schools in Beijing, I would n't be here today talking about how USTC is.
But USTC at the time was weak ; considering location, expenses, promotion and connections, USTC's greatest wealth was its students.
If we had n't come forward and done something for USTC, it would have been finished.
This is also the main reason USTC students banded together.
Because I chose science and technology as my career, I am grateful to USTC for teaching me many things, and I am grateful to the reputation established by the previous president of the university, who enabled those who came after to benefit from it.
Precisely because I feel this gratitude, I want to repay USTC.
I regularly do my job properly and do not let USTC lose face.
I want to save money out of my meager fellowship to help a poor university student with his living expenses for four years.
I want to go back to China to make my contributions ; I also want to provide the needed help to future students of my university.
When I see people attacking USTC, I sometimes want to take the time to defend it, even though that may not help much.
Those USTC haters have their own reasons ; I do n't intend to change their thinking.
But with China's universities being so backward, what contributions have these naysayers really made to their alma maters and their country ?
Like gaddy, for example, who first badmouths USTC students for not wanting to contribute money, says he himself has some money, and then wants to spend money filing a lawsuit because of a dispute over personal feelings on the bbs.
This hater really has some problems of his own.
After graduating, I will go back ; no matter where I work, I'm still a USTC student, and I have no regrets about USTC and no regrets about my country.
--
* Source : ・ BBS Unnamed space station mitbbs.com ・-LSB-FROM : 74.139.-RSB-.
hrfrank
Poster : hrfrank-LRB-crazy frank-RRB-, Section : Overseas.
Topic : Re : I am grateful to USTC.
Posting station : BBS Unnamed space station-LRB-Tue Jan 2 19:23:41 2007-RRB-.
I am also a USTC student, but everybody has studied abroad ; there's no need to divide up into groups and quarrel all the time.
Chinese people love to beat up on Chinese people.
I love USTC, I love China.
Without the fatherland, there 'd be no USTC-LRB-or your university-RRB-; without USTC-LRB-or your university-RRB-, there 'd be no me now.
Everybody is XDJM, so let's not keep burning each other, OK ?
--
* Source : ・ BBS Unnamed space station http:mitbbs.com ・-LSB-FROM : 74.71.-RSB-.