-LSB-CJPT-RSB-Roach : Risk Capital Will Be the Next Bubble.
Cnews
Poster : Cnews-LRB-chinanews-RRB-, Section : BusinessNews.
Topic :-LSB-CJPT-RSB-Roach : Risk Capital Will Be the Next Bubble.
Posting station : BBS Unnamed space station-LRB-Mon Jan 22 21:09:59 2007-RRB-, Dump.
□ Morgan Stanley's leading economist, Stephen Roach.
Several major lessons of 2006 rather reasonably explain the main developing trends in last year's markets, namely that the current situation in the financial markets embodies the effects of all these developments interacting with one another.
In particular, in an era of excess current capital, risk capital high-income company bonds, structural credit products, emerging market securities and even staple commodities will be the next bubble.
Global rebalancing.
This is a topic that I have spent much of the last five years trying to get people to be concerned about.
To put it simply, the rebalancing theory holds that if the gap between countries with trade surpluses and deficits continues to expand, it will harm the sustained growth of the world's economy.
In the last two years, regular account deficits in the U.S. averaged more than 800 billion dollars annually ; the U.S. accepted nearly 70 % of the earned surplus reserve of the world's other countries, the equivalent of needing to bring in some 35 billion dollars per average business day in outside financial burden.
In a nutshell, the rebalancing plan the world so urgently needs is nothing more than a thorough reshaping of the global savings mix-that is, an improvement in the U.S. savings rate, which has been stagnant for a long time, and a lessening of excessive savings in other countries-LRB-especially in Asia and the Middle East-RRB-.
If the world's savings mix does not change, the rebalancing theory holds that the situation will be very harmful to outside financing in deficit economic systems.
As for the United States, this will augur low exchange rates for the U.S. dollar, and an expansion of effective interest rates on U.S.-dollar capital.
But this did not happen in 2006.
Although as the end of the year approached the U.S. dollar dropped somewhat, and effective interest rates continued to climb, this movement was still very far from the radical adjustments predicted by the framework of the rebalancing theory.
This phenomenon has two possible explanations : one is that other factors cropped up and intervened ; the other is that the theory basically does not stand up.
I choose the former ; I believe the reason lies in the prolongation of the period of excess current capital worldwide and the policy of central banks in Asia and the Middle East of buying up U.S. dollars.
So long as these forces are in play, the effects on financial markets recognized by the rebalancing theory will continue to be softened.
Globalized tracks.
Last year was an important milestone in the globalization process.
Benefiting from an acceleration in the pace of transnational integration, global trade for the first time accounted for a record-setting 30 %-plus of global GDP in 2006.
From 1998 to 2006, the increase in global trade accounted for fully 42 % of the overall increase in the world's total output value.
This kind of trade concentration has the potential for a huge macroeconomic impact on global growth.
The rapidly exploding supply of goods and services from low-production-cost developing countries is equivalent in terms of function to a strong anti-inflationary counterblast blowing on the developed world.
Despite rapid rises in energy costs, it is estimated that in 2006 the CPI inflation rate in the industrialized countries was only 24 %, about the same as inflation levels in 2005, which were affected by energy factors, but each year's " core " elements did not change much.
Although the labor and product markets in most large industrial nations are gradually improving, sustained low inflation is increasingly becoming a global force, exerting an effective counterbalance effect on internal pressures that have always contributed to inflation in developed countries.
U.S. Real Estate Bubble Shock.
Like the stock market bubble six years ago, another prime-assets bubble burst in 2006 ; this time it was the huge U.S. real estate bubble.
Just as the bursting of the 2000-01 stock market bubble led to mild collapse, I am worried that people are discarding too quickly the risk of a similar situation occurring in 2007.
First, adjustment of the housing market has just begun ; taking the number of workers in the U.S. home construction industry as an example, current figures are only 15 % below the cumulative increase over the last five years.
Second, over-indebted American consumers with their insufficient savings are using their increasingly overvalued houses to support their excessive consumption ; and now housing prices are turning soft, people are losing their rights to redeem their mortgage, and consumer demand will face greater pressures.
Third, in the presence of a dim outlook for housing and consumer markets and high sensitivity to forecasts of ultimate market demand, capital expenditure plans may slacken ; orders for core capital products declined consecutively in November and December, 2006, indicating that the adjustment in this area may already be under way.
Just like the stock market bubble six years ago, widespread public opinion holds that any damage done by the recent asset bubble will be kept within the U.S. housing construction industry.
I believe this is a classic example of not learning our lesson.
The Staple Commodities Cycle.
The view that commodity markets have supercycles ran into a serious challenge in 2006.
Oil prices slipped by more than 25 % from their mid-July peak and the price of natural gas fell by more than 30 %, and prices for major metals like copper, which are sensitive to economic trends, showed signs of weakening at the end of the year.
The main premise of the supercycle theory hangs on an extremely reliable shortage of staple commodities ; this shortage was created because in the last 20-odd years there has been a shortage of capital to invest in building new capacity for acquisition and processing.
Whereas the advance of globalization will spur sources of new demand from China, India and other commodity-intensive economic systems, asymmetry between supply and increasingly fierce demand causes exponents of supercycles to issue the highest commodity price forecasts in history.
In my view, this does not give adequate consideration to latent demand cycles in commodity markets.
The American real estate market shock is an example of this ; a sluggish market will cause demand for many materials sensitive to the homebuilding industry to drop sharply.
However, the real demand cycle may depend on China, an economic system that accounts only for approximately 5 % of the world's GDP, but whose increased consumption of oil and key metals accounted for fully 50 % of total global growth last year.
Influenced by the slowing of exports to the United States, combined with the deliberate cool-down in the overheated investment sector, China's growth will slow next year.
These demand factors will be adequate to deliver a decisive blow to the supercycle view of the supply-driven commodity market.
But will the lessons of 2006 be the key to success in 2007 ?
Of course things are not as simple as that.
We can undoubtedly draw some important lessons and tips from last year's economy, but there is another important thing here ; I still believe that the two main engines driving global growth will slow down under the influence of the burst real estate bubble in the United States and the cool-down in investments in China.
Even though I do not believe the global economy is in for a hard landing, if global growth slips one percentage point below the average of 49 % for the last four years, I will not think it unexpected.
My greatest concern is that people continue to treat lightly the continually booming risk assets markets ; they include high-yield corporate bonds, institutional credit products, emerging market securities and even staple commodities, and this is going to be the next bubble.
However, like the stock and real estate markets, the economy tells us that the extreme case of the asset markets can always last longer than we anticipate, particularly in a time of excess current capital, but if the risk assets bubble lasts another year, it may cause more problems.
--
* Revision : ・ Cnews on Jan 22 21:10:06 Revised text ・-LSB-FROM : 219.142.-RSB-.
* Source : ・ BBS Unnamed space station mitbbs.com ・-LSB-FROM : 219.142.-RSB-.