Guo Kai's Economic Notes : Your uncle is just your uncle.
Guo Kai's Economic Notes
This morning I went to the supermarket with Dad, and when it came time to check out I discovered something that everybody probably knows : not everybody buys the same things.
Of course this is a no-brainer, but this is actually a major problem faced by me and many other people whenever we discuss economic issues or economic phenomena.
Most of the time, economic policy and economic theory are not aimed at individuals.
In terms of probability, if you explain the behavior of a specific individual, for example your uncle, using any economic theory, the probability that it will be accurate is virtually 0.
In fact, in the great majority of cases the economic theory is aimed at an entire group, or a subgroup.
In terms of averages, accuracy is the goal of many economic theories-LRB-here I'm being inaccurate ; I hope the experts will not take it too literally, especially those with IO expertise-RRB-.
But with regard to an ordinary person, he may never see the whole group, he sees only his co-workers, his relatives and his friends, the group of people familiar to him ; add up all the people in this group and they may number 200, and that is already a lot of people.
Below I am going to refer to these 200 people collectively as " his uncle. "
So whenever you discuss an economic theory with someone, the response of a perfectly ordinary person would be : My uncle is n't like that, so this theory is baloney.
In other words, everybody tends to mistake the part for the whole.
Here, mistaking the part for the whole is not derogatory ; it is a limitation of the human race itself ; you have it and I have it.
If Americans had learned not to mistake the part for the whole, they might not have made such a mess of the world.
I believe that they made such a complete mess of the Middle East to a very large extent because they applied their own common sense to understanding the Middle East, which is a completely different place from the United States.
On this issue, China does not have much basis for being self-congratulatory ; China's rapid rise has even caused some people to have a sort of misconception-that whatever China does is right-and this is in fact a manifestation of narrow-mindedness.
Therefore I believe it is extremely important to recognize that one's own knowledge has limitations.
We need to maintain a sufficiently open attitude toward things that do n't correspond to our common sense.
So just because every time your uncle goes to the supermarket he buys hog head meat does n't mean that we should immediately assume that any theory that does not predict people going to the supermarket will buy hog head meat is wrong.
When you feel other people are talking baloney, and what other people say does not correspond to your " common sense, " you should at the same time recognize that your uncle is only your uncle, he is not the whole world.