Low-Cost Flying ; the Chunqiu Airline Experience
vox
Poster : vox-LRB-voice-RRB-, Section : BackHome.
Topic : Low-Cost Flying ; the Chunqiu Airline Experience.
Posting station : BBS Unnamed space station-LRB-Sat Jan 20 09:51:22 2007-RRB-.
Low-Cost Flying ; the Chunqiu Airline Experience.
vox
The country's first civilian-operated airline is headquartered in Shanghai.
The first impression is that the English name is too vulgar, china-sss.com, would anybody be interested in putting this company's announcement on Jay Leno ?
I heard people saying the ticket prices are cheap.
Then I went online and looked ; there are A and B classes, but no first-class cabin.
Every day a certain number of specially priced seats can be reserved only online.
The ticket prices are certainly the cheapest.
Chunqiu is encouraging online booking with a 30-yuan discount, which saves on costs.
But paying online in China is extremely complicated ; that's another story.
The baggage limit is 15 kg, but I see lots of people whose baggage are definitely over that.
I did n't see complete data online for their flight safety record.
The A320 model is one commonly used only on minor routes.
The planes are not as old as the same models in the U. S.
Signs say the life vests are under the seats, but in fact under the seats it's absolutely empty.
Someone next to me asked the flight attendant, and she was unable to answer.
A male flight attendant then said there were no life vests.
After I got back to the States I hitched a ride on a plane of the same model, and the signs said the seat padding could be used as a flotation device.
That must be correct.
On board, aside from a small bottle of water, no beverages were offered, but they were selling boxed meals, all of them with the same packaging, for ￥28 a box.
There were also soy-sauce eggs, preserved eggs, peanuts and other snacks.
I do not feel that this is a good approach on brief short-haul passenger flights.
First, they have to remember the passenger's order and seat number, collect the money-LRB-and check for counterfeits-RRB-. Then heat the meal, deliver the meal... there's more than just one type of meal, and the preparation is n't always simple.
It's all helter-skelter enough.
Many people were still eating just before the plane landed.
Plus they also enthusiastically peddle gifts to earn extra income. Such as model airplanes, dolls...
I saw one person pay 200 for a model airplane.
In order to reduce the number of empty seats, the plane even has passengers going to different destinations ; after the plane landed at Shanghai, those people stayed on the plane and waited for the cabin to be cleaned and tidied, and only after new passengers were boarded did they continue on their way.
After we landed at Shanghai, an airport bus transferred us ; they did n't use the bridge.
They said this was another cost-saving measure.
In short, the plane was on time, the baggage was delivered quickly, and the service was OK.
This kind of train-like business approach is rather unusual.
--
Dezhou Casino monopoly, rocket calf spur.
* Source : ・ BBS Unnamed space station http:mitbbs.com ・-LSB-FROM : 68.92.-RSB-.
Diagram of this topic : IMG_0782.JPG-LRB-762259 bytes-RRB-