Advice to Wu Jinglian and Others : Killing the Father--Does You No Good !.
613305
Posted by-LSB-Little Peng Zhongyi-RSB-at Jan 3, 2007 18:53:26-LSB-SMS-RSB--LSB-Tables-RSB-.
Advice to Wu Jinglian and Others : Killing the Father--Does You No Good !.
--Some Thoughts on the Attitude of Benign Inheritance towards Social Reform.
A glance at the title, people with a little political sensitivity may roughly understand the core topic of this article : the rule of benign interaction between planned economy and market economy, and between public ownership and private ownership--because only their relationships are those between a father and a son, and it is only between them are there different conflicts involving " human relations, " " rules " and " science, " as well as bloody wrestling between classes, factions and individuals on the basis of morality and interests.
Comparing planned economy and public ownership to a father is tantamount to comparing market economy and private ownership to a son, which holds water principally and historically no matter you put it this way or another.
This is because the former two given " fatherhood " are indeed the most essential factors of the national character and institution of the socialist new China, while the latter two dubbed " son " in this article--are indeed the ideological outcomes derived after the death of China's founder Comrade Mao Zedong under tremendous international and domestic political pressures on planned economy and public ownership, which grew into today's para-system after about 30 years of reform and opening up.
Regarding this, the factual development process of political civilization that the Marxist ideology has been increasingly marginalized over the past 30 years or so is a strong evidence.
By sorting out the essence of the above historical background and conceptual relationships, we will have a pretty thorough, comprehensive and systematic knowledge framework about the benign inevitable trends and development guidelines of the future society dependent on the rule of society, so that the associated impression captured may be more concrete.
Regarding this, my standpoint is : because the socialism underpinned by planned economy, public ownership and the people's democratic dictatorship is indeed a really " fresh " systemic thing for China in the mid and late 20th century--without a model or sufficient experience or theories to refer to, no matter how scientific its kernel is, it is hard not to have certain superficial and local problems.
However, this should not provide an excuse to overthrow it by fair means or foul, as he is our father and the common choice of millions of laboring people.
The fact that it " finally became our national character and main system after over half a century of international and domestic political transformation " is a stronger proof that it is the milestone for a new civilization resulted from the blood and sweat of thousands of proletarian revolutionary martyrs.
Therefore, no matter from the perspective of average citizens or from the standpoint of the founder of the new government, we should respect and develop her on the basis of inheritance, innovation and improvement.
Is my opinion above correct ?
I believe you will naturally obtain a relatively fair and just conclusion if you could understand and treat the above-mentioned " father " system and " son " system with impartiality and sufficient goodwill.
For example, based on the existing institutional cultural heritage in the human history, we could see : the " father " system mentioned herein has the majority in mind or it is established in the fundamental and long-term interests of the majority, as well as the need for sustainable and sound development of the country, the nation, and the overall society--while the " son " system mentioned herein is ignorant and sick in the company of such behavioral characteristics as exploitation, fraudulence, pernicious influence and robbery.
So, we can not urge the son to throttle the essentially healthy and scientific " father " system by fair mean or foul without considering the consequences, because there are problems in its practice and development--such as state monopoly for purchases and sales, lower efficiency due to centralized management, and inhibition of the will of productivity by undue political pressure resulting from class struggles during the new deal.
It is because that will not only make the society increasingly ignorant and sick as it violates the rule of benign social development, distorts normal " human relations " and the ethic and prevalent value and the rule of civilization update rooted in it, but the humanity will retrogress as people's thoughts and behaviors become increasingly ridiculous.
Yes, this is the case.
My opinion above is not absurd and delusive at all, because this is true not only in theory, but also to the rule of social development as demonstrated by historical facts, as well as from the perspective of the situation and reality of the country : None of the current " advocates of market economy, private ownership and dictatorship of the bourgeoisie " has established and proposed a new deal " against planned economy, public ownership and dictatorship of the proletariat. "
All their criticisms are directed at the developmental symptoms such as " lower efficiency due to centralized management " or " inhibition of the will of productivity by undue political pressure resulting from class struggles during the new deal, " all their proclamations are political attacks and instigation aimed to win over the less than 5 % " vested interests, " and their development logic asks the " 95 % " laboring people to stay where they are and willingly endure the hard work--it speaks for itself how empty, ridiculous, sick, ignorant and anti-government it is.
That's why I want to say to the world and the age by the end of the article : when the father's toes are injured, we should try our best to treat the foot problem, and open up a new life and embrace health in the principle of respecting human relations, obeying people's wishes, conforming to science and carrying on the legacy--if the present capitalist followers frantically urge the son to kill him by all means, the result could only be a tragedy !
And these happen to be the core of the destiny where the capitalist roaders " will inevitably bury themselves due to their ignorance and insanity, and more or less harm the human society ! "
At last, I would like to admonish sincerely and earnestly those who blindly oppose, hate and even suppress planned economy, public ownership and dictatorship of the proletariat, especially the " mainstream elite scholars " including Wu Jinglian, who insist on smearing the " father " to the end : do not treat the " fathers " on which the new civilization is based barbarously, against your conscience and frantically for immediate gains.
The result is definitely a tragedy--because even if you kill the " father, " your felony will be disdained by the age and condemned by the people, which naturally leads to nothing good !
Independent economic and human studies analyst.
Brother and companion of conscientious Chinese sons and daughters : Peng Zhongyi.
January 2, 2007.
Contact for friendship and blame
QQ : 22761792
MSN : p...@hotmail.com
email : youyutianshi...@sina.com