What the Chinese Nation Needs Most is a Son like Zhou Enlai-LRB-In Commemoration of the 31st Anniversary of the Death of the People's Good Premier-RRB-
613305
-LRB-Who knew the string was broken-RRB-
People all like to call themselves son of the people, and son of the Chinese nation.
However, there are standards for being a son of the Chinese nation and the Chinese people.
Not everyone can be called son of the people and the nation.
In addition, the people and the nation also have certain conditions for selecting their sons.
Anybody who wants to can not just become a son of the Chinese nation and the Chinese people.
What kind of son do the Chinese nation and the Chinese people need ?
She needs a son who is absolutely loyal to her, yet she neither needs nor accepts those who are only loyal on the surface, or in speech, toward the entire nation and all of the people, but in reality are political and economic parasites who are only loyal to themselves, loyal to their own family clan, loyal to their own small clique and small social stratum.
She needs a strong man of the times, a revolutionary and politician, who works wholeheartedly for the benefit and happiness of the entire nation and all of the people, she neither needs nor accepts those who only flaunt the banner of seeking benefit and happiness for the entire nation and all of the people, but in reality are vulgar villains and political liars who seek benefit and happiness only for themselves, for their family clan, and for their own small clique and small social stratum.
She needs a strong man of the times, an outstanding revolutionary and politician who is fully focused on, as well as capable of, making the Chinese nation prosperous and strong, and making the Chinese people wealthy and happy ; she neither needs nor accepts those shameless opportunists and hoodlum politicians who betray and sacrifice the political and economic interests of the entire nation and all of the people for themselves, their own family clan, and their own small clique and small social stratum, for the sake of their own gratitude or resentment, prestige, and interests, leaving the Chinese nation and the Chinese people to suffer loss, disaster, and humiliation.
She needs a giant of the times and an outstanding politician who spares no effort in performing his duty to make the Chinese nation rise and stand out among the thicket of the world's nations, to allow the Chinese people to proudly live in happiness and harmony in the world, with heads high and chests out ; she neither needs nor accepts those national scum and common enemies of the people who for themselves, their own family clan, and their own small clique and small social stratum, for the sake of their own gratitude or resentment, prestige, and interests, make the Chinese nation and the Chinese people inferior or second-rate in the world.
Let's look throughout history and count the heroes.
The history and reality of the Chinese nation and the Chinese people can tell the world that only such outstanding revolutionaries and politicians as Mao Zedong and Zhou Enlai are the most needed, most qualified, most outstanding, and most loyal sons for the Chinese nation.
613305
In Memory of Zhou Enlai : Zhou Enlai was Indeed Mao Zedong's Close Comrade-in-arms
-LSB-New Philosophy-RSB-
Zhou Enlai was a loyal defender and implementer of Mao Zedong Thought.
This was sufficiently proved by the victory of the 4th Anti-" Encirclement " campaign, the victory of the Red Army's 25000-li Long March, the victory in the Anti-Japanese War, the victory in the War of Liberation, as well as socialist economic construction.
Some say that Zhou Enlai followed the " doctrine of the mean. "
That is not true.
The " doctrine of the mean " only mechanically implemented the " mathematical logic " theory for development and change in the material world.
In fact, Zhou Enlai best understood and mastered the " Concept on People " of Mao Zedong Thought, and best understood and mastered the concept of " The Development of Human Society " of Mao Zedong Thought that focuses on " events, not people " in transforming human society.
In politics, Mao Zedong wanted to transform people's ideology, rather than to destroy people.
Mao Zedong dealt with those comrades in the Party who committed blunders by " learning from past mistakes to avoid future errors, and curing the sickness to save the patient ; " he treated KMT war prisoners by transforming them.
Ever since Mao Zedong's leadership position in the Red Army and Party Central Committee was established at the Zunyi Conference, Zhou Enlai had always been Mao Zedong's close assistant.
Zhou Enlai accurately understood and mastered Mao Zedong Thought.
He protected many comrades and democratic personages from brutal attacks and persecutions during the Cultural Revolution.
Zhou Enlai %pw sincerely implemented diplomatic guidelines and the blueprint for constructing the " Four Modernizations " proposed by Mao Zedong.
Zhou Enlai was approved of and supported by Mao Zedong and was loved by the general populace as well.
He gave his all until his heart ceased to beat.
Li Xiannian once said : " We often say that we must serve the people with heart and soul.
What is heart and soul ?
In my opinion, Comrade Enlai is an example for us. "
Deng Xiaoping once said that during the Cultural Revolution, because of " the prestige of Chairman Mao, Premier Zhou, and other older generation leaders, even though an ' all-out civil war ' was said to have occurred, real civil war did not occur, as in the end it was not a large-scale fight. "
" We will learn from his absolute loyalty to Marxism, Leninism, and Mao Zedong Thought. "
Mao Zedong Thought was the most valuable spiritual wealth of the Chinese people.
Zhou Enlai established an example for us through his accurate understanding and mastery of Mao Zedong Thought, and implementation of Mao Zedong Thought.
Zhou Enlai was a great Marxist !
Zhou Enlai was indeed Mao Zedong's close comrade-in-arms !
Welcome to log on to my blog : xzx620521.blogcn.com and http:blog.sina.com.cnu1265687602 or search for " subjective four-dimensional materialism " and look for my related thesis " Exploration in Philosophy------. "
Email address : xzx...@sina.com
Note : I would appreciate if you would contact me to reprint or publish my article selections.