ZT Han Han : Car Knowledge and Manifestation of Life-LRB-Regarding the car accident involving that beautifultalented Taiwanese girl-RRB-
conjee
Poster : conjee-LRB-conjee-RRB-, Forum : Automobile
Title : ZT Han Han : Car Knowledge and Manifestation of Life-LRB-Regarding the car accident involving that beautifultalented Taiwanese girl-RRB-
Poster's Site : mitbbs.com BBS-LRB-Wed Jan 31 11:16:04 2007-RRB-
A few days ago, another Taiwanese star passed away.
I had never heard of her.
I hear she was a talented beauty.
What a great pity !
The accident was a car crash.
Much of the entertainment news denounced that +her car's front airbag failed to release, which caused the death.
In fact, the MINI COOPER she was riding in is not what the reports said.
It is the car with the highest safety index.
It is sold for 190,000 HK dollars in Hong Kong.
Polo also sells for more than 140,000 HK dollars.
It's just a cute little car, preferred by girls.
But safety is surely not too big of a problem.
The collision happened on the side and rear.
So, the side airbag and air curtain were fully opened.
They opened at the time of first collision with the protective fence.
The first collision was with the protective fence only, and the impact on the people was very small.
In addition, there was the protection of the air curtain.
So, there would surely not be a big problem.
The real fatal collision was the second one from the tailgating truck.
At that time, all the airbags were already deflated.
There was no protective effect.
Furthermore, the force of this one was extremely large.
If the car had been stopped at an angle, then the head of the person sitting on one side would surely have hit the glass or the B column.
Meanwhile, there would not have been too much of a problem for someone on the other side.
This is common knowledge.
Then it came down to who had the bad luck of sitting on the side of the car that was angled out.
It was perfectly correct for the front airbag not to open, because the front of the car was not damaged at all.
None of the sensors received any signal of a collision.
Just imagine, this was a rear collision.
The people went backward abruptly.
Their bodies could have been supported by the seats, but the impact on their necks and heads was tremendous.
When they went abruptly backward, any additional misfortune of the front airbag opening for no reason would have eliminated any chance of survival.
So, of all the cars in the world, even a Rolls-Royce, the front airbag will not open during a rear collision.
If the front airbag opened after being tailgated, that would be a quality problem, and would be extremely dangerous.
The safety airbag's eruption could knock someone to death.
So, infants are strictly forbidden from sitting in the front seat.
That was how the whole accident took place.
The result of the accident investigation division will not be different from this.
For this kind of accident, conclusions can be drawn from a single glance at the car wreckage.
The car and the car manufacturer have no fault.
All of the car's passive safety protections had already fully carried out their functions.
So, it is extremely ridiculous and unscientific to blame and suspect the car and the car manufacturer for such an accident.
In particular, speculation about why the front airbags did not open was very amateurish.
Only by not opening would it have been correct.
If they had opened, her assistant might still be lying in the hospital.
If an accident occurs on the freeway, please get out of the car and leave immediately if you can move.
Many freeway accidents occur simply because people stay inside the car and sort out their thoughts, following which there is a fatal crash from a car following behind.
About death, I have always believed that they do not leave the world.
They only leave the human world.
They are surely sharing the same world with us, with a different manifestation of life.
--
It is in change that we find purpose.
* Source : mitbbs.com BBS, http:mitbbs.com-LSB-FROM : 15656.-RSB-