Untimely Democracy.
tlu
Poster : tlu-LRB-^_^-RRB-, Section : ChinaNews.
Topic : Untimely Democracy.
Posting station : BBS Unnamed space station-LRB-Mon Jan 8 07:57:27 2007-RRB-.
After Taiwan achieved democracy, hundreds of thousands of people turned out in the streets repeatedly to demonstrate.
Since Iraq achieved democracy, the situation has bordered on civil war.
China's population is many times theirs, and our average educational level is lower than theirs.
If we blindly pursue so-called democracy that is not in keeping with the times, what happened in Taiwan and Iraq will certainly be many times worse here-LRB-as a multiple of the population-RRB-.
China could certainly fall into a situation of rule by gangsters or religious forces, or civil war.
When that happens, the chaos of the Cultural Revolution will pale by comparison, and it will be too late to cry.
Then there will be no need for America and Japan to attack us, we 'll be too busy fighting each other.
We wo n't need to be concerned with Taiwan ; even the Northeast will be independent.
Let's say it again : it suits the interests of the West for China to become a disunited country with no production capacity and no fighting ability.
But so-called democracy is just a talking point ; some people take democracy as the ultimate form of morality, cloaking themselves in democracy in order to buy contraband.
Promoting democracy at least sounds better than promoting China's return to a feudal empire or primitive society.
--
* Source : ・ BBS Unnamed space station http:mitbbs.com ・-LSB-FROM : 24.97.-RSB-.
tlu
Poster : tlu-LRB-^_^-RRB-, Section : ChinaNews.
Topic : Re : Untimely Democracy.
Posting station : BBS Unnamed space station-LRB-Mon Jan 8 23:01:53 2007-RRB-.
I answer frequently asked questions only once ; excuse me if I am unable to answer each similar question individually.
This question is very easy to answer ; that is, the meaning of these leaders ' democracy is not the same as the democracy of those who are anti-Chinese.
The leaders ' democracy is the democratic dictatorship of the people ; this has basically already been achieved, or is being achieved.
Because of cognitive issues, some people may feel they have been cheated.
Do not misunderstand me ; I support democracy.
But I support democracy in keeping with the times.
That is, a primitive society has the democracy of a primitive society ; a slave society has the democracy of a slave society ; a society in the early stages of socialism has a democracy suitable for the elementary stages of socialism.
Changes may occur in basic concepts of mathematics and physics because of new discoveries ; does the substance of democracy really remain unchanged for thousands of years ?
In other words, in the appropriate period, and for the appropriate groups, the appropriate democracy needs to be implemented.
That is my view of democracy.
【 Mentioned in the works of Wang2004-LRB-Welcome everyone to BBS.Nlone.net-RRB-: 】.
: " China's shortcoming is that it lacks democracy ; it should thoroughly implement democracy throughout its territory. "
:--June 12, 1944, Mao Zedong responds to Chinese and foreign reporters.
: China has a fault, and it is a major fault.
This fault, in a word, is that it lacks democracy.
The Chinese : people have an extraordinary need for democracy ; because only with democracy can the War of Resistance be strong : only then can Chinese internal and external relations : get on track, only then can we win the War of Resistance, only then can we build a good China, and only with democracy can we get China to continue : its unity after the war.
China lacks democracy, which all of you present are fully aware of.
Only with democracy can China move forward.
.
:......
: In order to defeat our common enemy and to establish good and peaceful internal relations, and good and peaceful : international relations, what we hope for from the Kuomintang government and the Kuomintang Party and all its factions is that they all implement democracy.
The entire : world is in this fight, and the war is in its decisive stages in Europe.
The decisive battle will come soon in the Far East, but China lacks a
:...................
--
* Source : ・ BBS Unnamed space station http:mitbbs.com ・-LSB-FROM : 24.97.-RSB-.