Be Your Own Psychiatrist.
Li Xu.
In today's society, fierce competition, cultural conflicts and material temptation disturb our minds incessantly, which often make us feel worried, anxious, upset and furious.
People also try to adjust themselves in material ways, but those often fail to work : exercises can not lessen the concerns at heart ; physical and mental fatigue persist not long after traveling ; the soft water bed can not bring comfortable sleeps ; and the luxurious room can not dispel the disputes of spouses.
That's why someone proposes that modern people learn a new survival skill--learn to be your own psychiatrist, helping yourself to dissolve all sorts of metal stresses at work and in life.
Be your own psychiatrist, simply put, is to improve your ability adjust yourself psychologically.
To elaborate, it means there should be a special role in your mind who possesses " the third eye " mentally to observe your emotional changes sensibly and find out the reasons for mental disturbances.
It is just like the " guardian angel " whom everyone has in Western legends, who gives you wisdom at critical moments and help you deal with the intricate reality properly, so that you will not lose direction.
There was a famous British psychologist named Ellis in the last century, who encouraged people to learn a special, reasonable and healthy way of thinking by reading professional books, organizing group discussions and doing specific training in thinking, in order to deal with emotional problems caused by stresses.
He should be the first one to advocate " learn to be your own psychiatrist. "
He encourages people to learn a new way of thinking like " learning a foreign language. "
The most important aspect in being your own psychiatrist is to learn to substitute the healthy way of thinking for the unhealthy way of thinking.
For example, ask two people to observe the same glass, if one notices a tiny speckle and the other notices the mild color, then the former's thinking pattern might be pessimistic, while the latter might be more sensitive to the positive aspect of things, which is a healthy and optimistic way of thinking.
Thus, learn to observe the positive aspect of things has become an important training.
To be your own psychiatrist, you should also learn to observe stress-related signs.
For example, if you have a stomachache, your normal response is to see a gastroenterologist.
Through observation by " the third eye, " you may see that the reason can be your new demanding boss.
To be your own psychiatrist, you also need to learn appropriate knowledge.
There was a student at the Tsinghua University, who were troubled by " depression " for a while.
When it was bad, he wanted to jump out and commit suicide at the sight of a window.
With some psychological knowledge, he knew it was a symptom of mental disorder, so he immediately sought help from professionals and received treatment soon.
Now in many European and American countries, some intellectuals including young college students like to read psychological books.
Psychological books can always be seen in the best seller lists in these countries.
Most readers do not aim to become counsellors, but to learn psychological knowledge to help personal growth.
Such healthy awareness is worth learning.
This july, lemonade, music, and the summer breeze.