Guo Kai's Economic Notes : Beijing's Gas Price vs. US Gas Price
Guo Kai's Economic Notes
In the US the current average price of regular unleaded gas is about 2.3 US dollars per gallon-LRB-3.78 liters-RRB-.
According to the official exchange rate of one US dollar for 7.9 RMB, this price is equivalent to 4.80 yuanliter.
Note, this gas price includes all taxes.
The current gas price in Beijing is 5.09 yuanliter, 2 mao and 9 fen more than in the US.
In fact, the gas price difference between the two places is larger than 2 mao and 9 fen because China's gas price does not include so many taxes as in the US ; for example, the highway maintenance fee in China is paid separately.
Just now, I only narrated a fact.
But I believe that different persons see different problems in this fact.
Let me describe people's two reactions that I can imagine, or the two problems I can see.
1. The US gas price is too cheap.
In an absolute sense, the US gas price has +already been cheaper than China's, and in a relative sense, the US gas price is even cheaper.
In the US, the money you pay for a meal at McDonald's can fill up more than 10 liters of gas, but in Beijing you can get 5-6 liters of gas at most.
The US low gas price policy has undoubtedly led to this country's excessive use of and overdependence on energy resources.
However, there is more to this matter, the whole world has to share the various negative effects caused by the US excessive energy consumption : global warming, and wars caused by oil, etc.
It is totally a joke that the US gas price could be cheaper than China's.
2. China's gas price is too expensive.
Both Americans and Chinese buy gas from the international market, and the technology and cost of oil refinement are not too much different.
But with the US gas price including taxes even lower than China's gas price excluding taxes, you can see how much money Chinese oil companies have made out of this.
If there are no price controls and monopolies, China's gas price should n't have been this high.
I want to say that I think these two opinions are both correct.
So, on the issue of oil consumption, I think China and the US, the No. 1 and No. 2 oil consumers in the world, are also a funny pair.
From a global perspective, the US gas price is obviously too low.
So Mankiw at Harvard even formed a " Pigou Club, " gathering social celebrities who support levying higher taxes on gas prices-LRB-hereby raising gas prices-RRB-.
China's gas prices are more complicated.
In fact, gas prices in China are probably not very high, but in order to reduce China's future overdependence on gas, it may be better that China's gas prices are higher.
But, the direct result of the gas price increase in China will be the increase of monopoly profits of the monopoly companies.
This part of money will not become the government tax revenue, will not be used for public welfare, and on the contrary, will only make the benefits of those people working at the monopoly department even better.
In other words, the gas price in China is too high in the distributive sense.
It is the price that transfers the entire social resources to a very small number of people.
But in terms of sustainability, China's gas price may still be too low.
We need high gas prices to control the overdependence on energy imports.
Perhaps someone will condemn me, saying further increase of gas prices will make life unbearable for people.
If you are a taxi driver, my reply is : the reason your life is unbearable is not the gas price, but because of our taxi licensing regulation system.
If you are a car owner, my reply is : ride the subway and bus more often.
It saves money, reduces congestion, and also lets you know car owners are not in a position to say " life is unbearable. "
Compared with most people, your life is already quite good.
darling0823
Comparing McDonald's in the US with McDonald's in China may not be right.
Eating a meal at McDonald's in the US is more comparable to buying a 5-yuan boxed meal in China.