Is it Really Healthy to Drink Milk on Empty Stomach ?
Healthy and happy
Protein will be wasted to drinking milk on empty stomach ?
Some say drinking milk on empty stomach will consume the protein wastefully as energy,
but actually milk contains about 45 % lactose, which is carbohydrate that will decompose first to supply energy and save protein.
In addition, milk also contains about 3 % fat, which also plays the role of supplying energy.
Therefore, drinking milk on empty stomach will not lead to protein waste.
The fact that infants under the age of one can drink milk on empty stomach and absorb nutrients proves that milk contains a variety of nutrients that can be fully used by the human body.
Even if the digestion rate will be slightly lowered, it is healthier to drink milk on empty stomach than to eat nothing the whole morning when there is no time for breakfast.
Tip : drink boiled water before milk.
It is not appropriate to take milk as the only drink in the early morning.
When you get up in the morning, it's better to drink a big glass of boiled water-LRB-light honey water is better in case of a dry indoor environment during the heating season-RRB-before consuming milk.
As milk has higher osmotic pressure, it is far less quick and effective compared to boiled water in terms of supplying moisture.
Who can not drink milk on empty stomach ?
What needs our attention is that if there are abdominal distention or diarrhea after drinking milk, it is then indeed inappropriate to drink a lot of milk with on empty stomach.
It is better to have some starchy food before you drink milk in multiple small serves, and it is better to have yogurt.
Experts said milk can not be consumed on empty stomach 20 years ago, because Chinese had few chances to drink milk.
Once they were weaned from breast milk, they hardly saw any dairy products.
Long-term separation from dairy products led to " lactose intolerance " of the body.
People suffered abdominal distention, diarrhea or dyspepsia whenever they drink milk.
If they drink too fast, especially drinking milk on empty stomach, the symptom would exacerbate.
Now time is different, and the diet pattern has also changed.
Many children and young people often consume milk, yogurt, ice cream and even cheese since childhood, which bring them strong ability to digest milk lactose.
Even if they drink milk on empty stomach, they will not feel uncomfortable.
So, the so-called remark of " no milk on an empty stomach " should be changed, at least with a premise added, instead of being generalized.
Click for more detailed information www.120zy.com.