Qingqing 20070104
bill shen
Cloudy, temperature about four degrees Celsius.
Yesterday Qingqing did not fall asleep till 1100.
He looked sleepy on the train, but he did n't sleep.
Yesterday Qingqing gave Mom a very clever retort.
On the train Mom noticed Qingqing farting and asked Qingqing whether he +wanted to poo.
She also said to Qingqing : " I gave birth to you, how could I not know what you are thinking about ? "
In the evening when washing his feet at home, Mom said : " Let's sell our house, buy a house next to Grandma's, and give Dad the remaining money to start a business with, is that okay ? "
Qingqing did not say a word and stared at Dad.
Dad shook his head.
Mom asked Qingqing : " Why are you staring at Dad ? "
Qingqing replied : " Do n't you know what I am thinking about ?
Why do you still ask me ? "
In the morning Dad woke him up.
Soaked crackers for breakfast.
Dad fed Qingqing.
Getting ready to go to the kindergarten, Dad said, " Let Mom take you there. "
Qingqing did not agree : " I want to go with Dad. "
Dad said : " Is it because Dad's vehicle has a canopy ? "
Qingqing did n't say anything.
Dad helped Qingqing put on his gloves and took Qingqing to the kindergarten.
Qingqing wanted Dad to tell the teacher : " I lost a tooth and can not eat properly. "
He just did n't want to say it himself.
Dad told the teacher, and Qingqing also opened his mouth for the teacher to look at it.
He looked very funny.
Then he pulled Dad over to look at Qingqing's drawer.
Dad helped Qingqing clean it up.
There is some other child's stuff in Qingqing's drawer.
Qingqing took it out and put it back into the child's drawer.
When moving the chair, Qingqing pushed it : Some children in our class move chairs just like that.
Dad wanted to help Qingqing.
Qingqing did not want it.
He wanted to move it by himself.
When Dad came back in the evening, Qingqing was running around holding Mom's cell phone, talking to Uncle over the phone.
He promised Uncle yesterday that from now on he would take Uncle's call.
Qingqing was calling Uncle " stupid, " just like he called Dad.
After finishing the call, Qingqing showed Dad the math book he got from the auction and told Dad : " I know how to do math. "
He also said : " Today Mom and I went to pop the rice ovalettes.
The rice ovalettes were still moist, so they did n't get fully popped. "
He then play the keyboard by himself, turning down the volume so as not to disturb the old grandma next door from her rest.
What a thoughtful kid !
Dad had had a bit too much to drink and did not talk much to Qingqing before he fell asleep.