28-year-old multimillionaire says : Why am I able to make money ?
forcode-LRB-Weird Ideas Log-RRB-
Author : http:www.donews.netpangshengdong mail : 200...@gmail.com.
Copyright announcement : May be reproduced at will ; when reproducing, please be sure to hyperlink the original source and the author's information and this announcement http:www.donews.netpangshengdong.
Note : I'm'm really embarrassed if this header is a bit flashy, but there's no other way ; I hope more media will reproduce this article and let more people see it, so the header needs to attract attention.
The scheme behind this article is just one example ; I want to use it to inform everyone that things should be done with a clear objective, and they need to be thought out clearly beforehand.
What kind of results will this achieve ?
Describe it in detail and write it down.
This way, you'll 'll improve your efficiency in everything you do.
Of course this article does have considerable value ; it's a summary of my 28 years of living and establishing a business, and what I say in it is not necessarily right, but I'm confident that it can get you started.
A brief self-introduction.
My name is Pang Shengdong <http:pangshengdong.com>.
I was born in 1977 into an ordinary peasant household in Tiantai, Zhejiang.
My mother was a peasant and my father was a carpenter ; they were both typical, solid country folk.
I got a job in 1998 ; I first wasted three years working in a public institution, and in 2001 I began setting up my own business ; I got things rolling, and I amassed a considerable amount.
In July of 2005 I invested in and established 51.com, serving as CEO.
51.com would provide a psychological harbor for millions of young Chinese females.
Starting from nothing, in six months ' time 51.com would enter the worldwide top 400 sites ; in 10 months ' time it entered the top 200 sites, and in 12 months ' time it was among the top 100 !
Now there are many risk investment companies expressing their clear intention to invest.
In my early years, I always believed that by relying on my smarts and effort I should eventually be able to live a pretty good life, but I never thought that when I was 28 I 'd be living in a fine home, be driving an Audi, have so many investors in my company, and have more than a hundred employees.
Many people ask me, Why ? Why are you able to make money ?
I ask myself the same question.
I need to sum it all up, to find out the reasons I can make money, to find out which qualities determined today's achievements, to keep from slowly losing these qualities.
Why am I able to make money ?
Making money means letting other people give you money ; it's selling things.
I made money because : I sold things to many people.
Why are there so many people who buy my things ?
If I look at it from this angle, and briefly sum it all up, the following are the main reasons :
1. Good character :
People's outlook is bright ; if your everyday character is such that you are always thinking of other people, your things ca n't be too shoddy.
A good person finds it easier to design good things, and good service models.
I am a good person, I can say that with a clear conscience.
To date, no one has been able to surpass the securities service model I designed four years ago.
I think being a good person is the first reason I am able to make money.
2. Effort, progress, and constant study :
This is the basic quality for success ; there has never been any free lunch in the world, and since I graduated I've worked and studied 14 hours every day.
Pay attention to the concept of constant study ; regardless of what you do, you need to give it careful consideration, and you 'll gain an understanding of it ; any time is study time.
3. Dare to act !
Take no action, then there's no opportunity for sure !
If you feel you can bear this risk, if you feel you can make do with the resources you have, then get cracking !
4. Luck : luck is also important.
Actually, now you can get the opportunity that this Internet provides, and everybody's luck has gotten better.
Do n't say that this completely new, revolutionary application, this huge market, which has grown so fast, is entirely taken up by big companies ; do n't say the current situation is so disadvantageous.
Five years from now, when we look back at 2005, we 'll say that these were good times created by the Internet.
5. Business flair and IQ :
My past business judgments demonstrate that I have a flair for business ; I think my business sense is pretty sharp.
6. Systematic thinking enables you to grasp the key points of any mater.
7. Strong cooperative awareness : nobody can do everything.
You need a team to make up for inadequacies in each person's ability and experience.
In fact, I previously wrote a similar article, and everybody can search for it on Baidu or Google.
Eventually I may specially rewrite it to describe in detail how to find a business that will make money.
Everyone please note my blog on Donews http:blog.donews.compangshengdong.
What I say is not necessarily right, but I am confident that if you read it carefully it should give you a start.
Regarding everyone's suggestions :
1. What you pay out you will get back.
Thinking more of other people, seeing things from their shoes : before you know it, we may also have the habits of good people, and this will raise our happiness index and our likelihood of succeeding.
Most successful people are good people !
2. People are naturally lazy, but if we want to succeed, if we want to make a lot of money, we need to think positively and make a greater effort !
Everybody has more or less the same IQ ; what can you use to make money ?
Hah ! Really make an effort !
At the same time, make sure you study constantly !
3. Remember : things are possible only when you act !
4. Business opportunities can be analyzed ; this requires a good model of thinking and adequate information.
How to analyze ?
Eventually I will write an article explaining this in detail.
5. Pay attention to teamwork ; one person can not achieve great things.
Always try to acquire friends who have abilities and experiences that complement yours.
If you want to establish a successful business, it's extremely important to have several good partners.
6. Joining up with a good company is also a shortcut to getting rich ; many new companies are now hiring, and 51.com is currently hiring on a large scale <http:companyads.51job.comcompanyadsshanghaishshengdong_060627i...>.
Everybody can also go read my blog ; that's also a good opportunity.
You need to seize opportunities immediately, otherwise you may end up kicking yourself.
At the end of 2005 51.com will be listed among the 500 top companies on the Alexa Web site.
7. If you have a chance, interact with those who are actually successful.
Read what those who are really successful have written ; articles like this are hard to come by.
I urge everyone to read the new book written by Li Kaifu, the president of Google China ; the book by Li Jian, the president of Pinsou, is also not bad.
In short : as long as you make an effort, are willing to do it ! And pay attention to your methods, everybody has a chance to succeed !
Everybody has a chance to become a multimillionaire.
If you 're interested, you can contact me by e-mail ; my address is 200...@gmail.com.
QQ ： 508012651.
MSN : 200...@gmail.com<MSN%EF%BC%9A200...@gmail.com>.
Personal blog : http:www.pangshengdong.com
Pang Dongsheng <http:pangshengdong.com> 51.com CEO Confidence and sincerity are what it's all about !
October 21, 2005 11:30 p.m. in Pudong 1, Shanghai.