Yun Dan Shui Nuan : Who to Look into the Backroom Deals Behind the Privatization of State-owned Shandong Luneng Group ?
tangchaoZX
Poster : tangchaoZX-LRB-tangchaoZX-RRB-Form : ChinaNews
Title : Yun Dan Shui Nuan : Who to Look into the Backroom Deals Behind the Privatization of State-owned Shandong Luneng Group ?
Poster's Site : mitBBS.com BBS-LRB-Fri Jan 19 16:24:53 2007-RRB-
Who to Look into the Backroom Deals Behind the Privatization of State-owned Shandong Luneng Group ?
Yun Dan Shui Nuan
As the year 2006 ended, so did a big hush-hush " deal. "
Caijing Magazine described it as " a quiet change of ownership for this vast business empire. "
These were the final few steps as Shandong Luneng Group " completed " its privatization.
In the past, when I heard the big name of Luneng Group, I usually would link it with soccer.
I could never expect it is a 73.805 billion yuan giant.
Yet, in the privatization of this giant, it turns out that the fairy tale of " big returns on a tiny outlay " once again played itself out.
It was incredible that the fairy tale once again played itself out as the former senior managers of a state-owned company changed in the blink of an eye into the " bosses " of a " private " company.
Given these fairy tales, we should ask what backroom deals there were behind this.
Behind a fairy tale there must be backroom deals.
This is now almost an undisputed truth.
There's never been a money fairy or goddess of wealth who gives wealth to anyone without any reason.
Zhang Rongkun, the main player in the Shanghai social insurance case, with a " new " company that was just registered and claimed to have 500 million in capital, was nevertheless able to acquire the 99.35 % stake in Shanghai Luqiao held by Shanghai Chengtou at a price of 3.2 billion yuan.
Gu Chujun, with a mere 900 million, " acquired " top-quality state-owned assets with a total asset value of 13.6 billion.
The backroom deals behind have already been revealed, and have entered into legal procedures.
And the privatization process of Shandong Luneng is also bound up with " acquisition. "
And in 2006, the " final " total " cost " of this acquisition, according to a report in the magazine Caijing, was 3.73 billion yuan.
It was described by some as " 3 billion buys up 76 billion. "
For the " buyers, " you could use the minute probability, zero probability such as winning the lottery or pie falling from the sky as an analogy.
This means backroom deals.
First, according to the Caijing report, Luneng's privatization process lasted 11 years-LRB-1995-2006-RRB-.
From state controlling stake → employee stock ownership with state investment → 100 % state controlled → employee stock ownership → private ownership, it has gone through five stages.
Yet, in this process, the real inside story is little known.
" Sneak into the village ; do n't fire the guns. "
In particular, the final stage of privatization turned out to be " top secret. "
The magazine Caijing reports : " The names of the two ' new owners ' of Luneng were once called ' the top secrets of top secrets ' among a very small circle inside Luneng.
Now it is exactly these two mysterious companies, whose names are unknown, that have taken over absolute stock control over this financial conglomerate. "
Ordinary people would think that since it's a well-known former state-owned company with huge assets that is connected with investment and operations in a large number of fields and connected with state-owned assets of enormous value, every step of its changes should be taken in the light of day, completed under the supervision of the relevant regulations, and inspected under the gaze of the public and the media.
If it's all rule-abiding, reasonable and legal, then why fear exposure ? Why all in secret, hidden away, veiled ?
Only if you know you have done something dishonest, will you be so much afraid of people knowing and try to make it " the top secret of the top secrets. "
Secondly, at the recently concluded plenary meeting of the Central Discipline Inspection Commission, they required and emphasized strict monitoring of corrupt practices in the financial sector by party members and leading cadres, particularly in the area of the transfer of state-owned assets.
Luneng Group's former chairman Gao XX and Luneng Group's former director-general Xu X, who have " already " changed into " private entrepreneurs, " " continue to serve their former posts " in the new " private company. "
So, did these two Party members-LRB-Gao XX previously held the positions of chief of the Shandong Linyi administrative office, deputy head of the electrical utility bureau, assistant to the head of the Shandong electricity bureau, and general manager and party secretary of Shandong Luneng Stock Controlling Group. Having gone through all of Luneng's stock transfers, he is still currently the chairman of Luneng Group. Xu X has served as head of the electrical utility bureau of Linyi, Shandong. In about 2003 he first entered the headquarters of Luneng Group as vice president assigned to manage property operations, after which he was very quickly promoted to the president of Luneng Group-RRB-, in the process of the series of mysterious stock deals at Luneng Group, carry out the unshirkable duties which the party members should undertake regarding state-owned assets and the public interest in strict accordance with the CPC Charter and the Party's strict discipline ?
Did they seek private gains for a small group or for themselves ?
If it was all above board, they should submit a report to the party organization on the process of their transformation from the senior management cadres of a state-owned company into " private entrepreneurs " and even announce it to the public.
Thirdly, according to a 1998 audit report, when Shandong Luneng Group was first established in 1995, it had 150 million yuan in registered capital, and operational assets of 2.6 billion yuan.
A more concrete image is " just five people and one office " expanding at an unimaginable speed in just 11 short years into Shandong's 73.805 billion yuan giant, incorporating coal-fired power stations, mining, real estate, engineering and construction, finance and sports clubs.
In this process, where did Luneng Group get its assets and opportunities for expansion ?
Luneng's background and Luneng's " birth " are inseparable from the state-owned monopoly of the electricity industry.
The electricity industry has huge assets and occupies a market position of natural monopoly.
During Luneng's rapid expansion, how much " blood " it actually extracted from state-owned assets seems to be a " cloudy issue. "
What's the idea with scrambling to " complete " privatization before this issue is cleared up, handed over to the public and announced to the media ?
Fourthly, it's said that the two private " companies " that finally " assumed ownership " of Luneng Group, Guoyuan Union Co. and Shouda Nengyuan Energy Co.--according to descriptions in the media, these two companies can be called " low profile " and " mysterious. "
If it was an open and above-board " assumption of ownership, " then why the " mystery ? " Why the " low profile ? "
According to reports, the origins, backgrounds and sources of capital for these two companies are completely beyond comprehension.
Is it possible that by some kind of " buying from yourself " process they have embezzled state-owned assets ?
Fifthly, the departments supervising state-owned assets and the electricity industry are SASAC and SERC, respectively.
But with Shandong Luneng Group undergoing such enormous changes, they say they " do not know what's going on. "
They say, " We have not yet received Luneng Group's application materials for the transfer of stocks. "
But what's strange is that according to reports by journalists, Luneng Group's business registration has in fact already " been adjusted. "
What's more, " since November 2006, Shandong Provincial Administration of Industry and Commerce has not allowed requests to see or inquire about the files of the Luneng family of companies. "
What on earth does this mean ?
Is it the Caijing reporter " making rumors, " or are the relevant departments neglecting their supervision ?
No matter how it is, now that the media have publicly reported on it, there ought to be some answer.
So, who exactly will look into these backroom deals that have been exposed by current reports ?
--
Source : mitbbs.com BBS, http:mitbbs.com-LSB-FROM : 152.14-RSB-