" Appeal from a Communist " and " Death " Threat to the Reporter.
peirongwang126@gmail.com
" Appeal from a Communist " and " Death " Threat to the Reporter.
An Appeal from a communist at the Fenghua Garden community.
Fenghua Garden residents :.
Weird things have persisted since we moved into the Fenghua Garden.
Over the past years, the media, procuratorate, court and government are all involved in the issue of Fenghua Garden.
Instead of any solutions to the issue, we can vaguely see all sorts of mysteries of politics.
This gives us nothing but confusions and concerns.
How could there be such a weird phenomenon under the communist leadership ?
We are puzzled !
After seeing the remarks of an auditor-general, I am finally a little enlightened on the mysteries of the " Fenghua Garden phenomenon. "
The insightful opinion of this insightful person is indeed penetrating, " there is no law-abiding community association in Xuzhou. "
This is the auditor's conclusion from the auditor-general after auditing the embezzlement of Fenghua Garden properties by the Community Association, which says there is no law-abiding community association.
Therefore, be it embezzlement or robbery, there's no surprise.
God ! It really makes you tremble with fear when such words are uttered by a communist official specializing in auditing.
How are the fundamental purposes of the Chinese Communist Party implemented among officials, media, procuratorate, court and government in Xuzhou ?
No wonder the media are afraid of releasing the actual situation at the Fenghua Garden.
You, leaders of the legal and political communities educated by the Party, do n't you feel the severity of the problem ?
The community association is a grass-root organization of the Party, which also hosts the Party Branch.
The community association does not obey the law, and even deliberately break the law, seizing and looting properties of residents and people and beating others in retaliation, coupled with the police's involvement in beating others.
These have deeply hurt people's hearts and will lead to a loss of support of people over time.
This is a major issue crucial to the life and death of the Party and the nation, which no communists or righteous Chinese should turn a blind eye to.
Specifically, communists and righteous and integral people at the Fenghua Garden should no longer keep silent.
We appeal to Secretary Xu Ming to address issue of the Fenghua Garden, as well as the issue that " there is no law-abiding community association in Xuzhou " promptly.
If it drags on again without solution, we should appeal to Secretary Li Yuanchao of the Provincial Committee, up to the Central Committee, with liabilities of leaders at various levels investigated.
Everyone is called upon for uniform action.
A communist, January 6, 2007
Wang Peirong received " death " threat for as long as a week.
Director of the Owner Committee, Wang Peirong, insisted on reporting and revealing publicly the illegal behaviors such as embezzlement and appropriation of public properties of the owners.
The action of Wang Peirong has stood in the way of some people to become rich and smashed the millionaire dream of some people in their attempt to embezzle and appropriate public properties, and so they hate Wang Peirong to the guts.
Recently, wife of Wang Guanghua, Deputy-Secretary of the Community Party Branch, has written more than once on the community notice board such things as " Wang Peirong is on a no-return road, " issuing open " death " threat to Wang Peirong.
Wang Peirong has reported to the police many times since January 4, but Wang Guanghua's wife exercised no restraint, and instead she wrote the " death " threat on Wang Peirong's unit entrance on the 8th.
The fact that Wang Guanghua's wife had the nerve to issue " death " threat to the reporter Wang Peirong for a week is associated with the public security's failure to investigate the case that the reporter Wang Peirong was bashed up by four family members of Liu Yongxiu, Director of the Fenghua Garden Community Association.
With the reporter's rights not guaranteed, law-breakers, criminals and the corrupt have no fear and retaliate upon the reporter.
The evil force is rampant at the Fenghua Garden community, Xuzhou.
With stolen authorities, they have embezzled and appropriated public properties of the owners by hook or crook and sought a protection layer through bribery.
They beat up the reporter and issued " death " threat.
This is not only an open provocation to the reporter Wang Peirong, but also an open provocation to owners at the Fenghua Garden, as well as an open provocation to the social legal system, which serious deteriorate the social atmosphere.
January 8, 2007.
Corruption is astounding in Xuzhou, with the corrupt committing all kinds of crimes blatantly.
The struggle against corruption makes little progress as it takes both blood and tears.
Corruption is astounding in Xuzhou, with the corrupt committing all kinds of crimes blatantly.
Amid deep-rooted corruption in Xuzhou, the struggle against corruption makes little progress as it takes both blood and tears.
For details, please see attachments " Crimes Treated Fairly, Auditing Becomes the Measure Of Money-Laundering, " " It is So Difficult to Legally Dismiss the Corrupt and Evil Community Association Director even at the Joint Request of Over 1600 Residents, " " The Reporter Bleeds and Tears, While the Reported Committing All Crimes Still at Large. "
People with the sense of justice, please help report and reveal :.
1. The crimes of Liu Yongxiu, who manipulated the Community Association to evade taxes and issue illegal invoices of ￥ 250,000, embezzle and appropriate over ? 100,000 public revenue of the owners, and retaliate upon the reporter ;.
2. Li Deqing, auditor-general of Quanshan District, among others, is suspected of misconduct, misuse of authority, irregularities for favoritism, and failure to submit criminal cases.
For detailed information, please contact Wang Peirong, Director of the Fenghua Garden Owner Committee, Xuzhou, Jiangsu Province.
Telephone : 0516-83884475, 0516-82952393-LRB-PHS-RRB-,
E-mail : peirongw...@126.com.
For articles " Crimes Treated Fairly, Auditing Becomes the Measure Of Money-Laundering, " " It is So Difficult to Legally Dismiss the Corrupt and Evil Community Association Director even at the Joint Request of Over 1600 Residents, " " The Reporter Bleeds and Tears, While the Reported Committing All Crimes Still at Large, " please see webpages :.
http:bbs.86516.comviewthread.php?tid=975363&pid=11981952&page=1&ex...
or http:bbs.86516.comviewthread.php?tid=975367&pid=11982001&page=1&ex...