ZT Discount Stamps and Sheetlets : Where Do They Come From ? Where Do They Go ?
Discount stamps are sets and sheetlets of stamps that are currently discounted.
This is the biggest category of stamps.
It has a large number, great variety, and large face value.
That is, it's a big category.
Precisely how big it is, I'm afraid no-one knows.
Because this category has an objective existence, no-one can ignore it.
Its trends are extremely important.
It is the biggest category for collectors and has the largest influence on the stamp market.
When it rises, this indicates that stamps are gaining as a whole.
Its strength and weakness is the barometer of postal policy, the thermometer for the temperature of the market.
If there is no comprehensive rise and gains at the bottom in the category of discount stamps, then any upsurge is a castle in the air, the moon in the water.
Its foundations will not be solid.
Only when this category is handled well can the stamp market have any hope of surging up out of its slump and heading for a beautiful future.
Where do discount sheets come from ?
●The postal service sells them at a discount : a few years ago the postal service sold large quantities of stamps at low prices, violating pricing rules and stamp collecting rules.
It dumped discount stamps onto the stamp market on a large scale, making 50-yuan sheets, 8-yuan sheets and 5-yuan sheets fall far below their own face value and the discounting of stamp sets even deeper.
This is the first source.
●Stamp collectors cashing out : the number of stamp collectors in our country reached a peak in 1997.
According to estimates, there were approximately more than 27 million stamp collectors at that time.
To meet the stamp collecting demand from the great numbers of philatelists, the postal administration printed large numbers of stamp sets and sheetlets, based on the number of people who ordered stamps at that time.
In the last few years, for a variety of reasons, a large number of stamp collectors have been lost and no longer collect stamps.
In order to cash out, these people dumped the 1992-2005 stamps that they had collected onto the market in large volumes, causing supply to exceed demand.
This is the second source.
● Sell-offs by big collectors : in the stamp speculation in 1997, quite a few large collectors having financial resources also bought back their stamp sheets from this period as short-term investments.
Now in order to cash out, they are also dumping them on the markets at a loss.
This is the third source.
● Underused : these stamps have been underused over the past few years, forming a large reserve in the market.
When the stamps were at their most discounted, a 50-yuan sheetlet was 10 yuan, about 80 % off ; an 8-yuan sheetlet was 2.4 yuan, about 70 % off ; and a 5-yuan sheetlet was 1.8 yuan, about 64 % off.
The discounts were even deeper on stamp sets, though they might not be sold even at these discounts.
This is the fourth source.
● Oversupply of new stamps : it is well known that for many years the number of new stamps released has been very large.
Everyone knows this, so there is no need to make further comment.
This is the fifth source.
Over the last ten-plus years, discounted sheets of stamps have been like ghosts, floating back and forth in the airspace over the stamp market, and among stamp dealers.
They are traded back and forth, but never disappear.
They are such an inexplicable embarrassment.
But to take a materialist view of them, their existence is a fact, and we should be sure not to ignore them.
And if we ask how to get rid of discount stamps ?
Some say that those who make a mess should clean it up.
I think that wherever they came from, that's where they should go back to.
■ Use them up : public service departments should make serving the people their highest aim.
They should address all the issues raised by NPC Deputy Yang Xianlong in his proposal concerning stamps, and should act in good faith in their work.
Good policies and good approaches will certainly bring good results and good returns.
The difficulty of using stamps for the general public is a major sticking point.
For historical reasons, the discounting of stamps has been widespread, with deep discount rates and long duration.
If these stamps are not permitted to be used, this is sure to harm the interests of the owners of the stamps ; if they are permitted to be used, then there will be a certain effect on the current revenues of the postal service.
It seems to be a contradiction not easy to resolve.
In fact, the newly-established China Post Group only needs to consider the big picture, to think about the future, to increase the rate at which stamps are used.
To further improve the postal reforms, the State Post Bureau should improve its supervision of postal services.
CPG should operate under supervision, and there should be no more violation of regulations.
This is the first way to get rid of them.
■ Collect them all : first, increase the number of stamp collectors by encouraging new people to join in stamp collecting.
Second, at all levels, all over the country, organize specific philatelic events that are conducive to a healthy body and mind and conducive to improving people's temperament.
Third, increase guidance to stamp collectors ' associations in their work.
Fourth, promote philatelic culture on all fronts, bring stamp collecting events into schools, into villages, into factories, into army bases, into residential communities, and into the homes of millions.
If old friends return and new people also join in, and the number of stamp collectors again reaches 15 million or more, then we are honestly a little doubtful whether these few stamps will be enough for everyone to share.
If there are n't enough for everyone to share, then the price of stamps will naturally rise.
This would then naturally solve the problem of discounted stamps.
This is the second way to get rid of them.
■Buy them back : there are two buy-back methods : one is a policy buy-back, which is the postal service dealing with discount stamps-LRB-at least important stamps-RRB-with a state buy-back.
At present this seems to be rather difficult.
Second is a market buy-back, using the lever of market economy.
This takes the stamps bought at bottom discount rates on the market and sells them again to the public to use on correspondence, speeding up the use of discount stamps.
This involves the restructured postal administration taking part in market operations, reducing the pressure of discount stamps.
After a period of operation, this problem can be solved very effectively.
This approach can be considered quite a realistic method.
This is the third way to get rid of them.
■Controlling the source : first is that you absolutely can not think that because the price of stamps is heading back towards their value, because the price has risen a little, another opportunity for dumping stamps at low prices has come, and again start playing tricks with overprints.
This is the limit of good faith, you absolutely must not, oh, this is a must.
From the facts that this year's year stamps are not being discounted, and the rate of discount on discounted stamps in the market has reduced significantly, it is enough to show that the postal policies are already starting to have an effect.
Only in this way will the numbers of stamps on the market start to decrease, and stamps move onto a healthy path of appreciation.
When stamps have risen in value to a certain degree, even if you ask someone to, he wo n't use stamps that are worth more than their face value as postage.
The more stamps appreciate, the fewer stamps will surely be used as postage.
This reasoning is obvious.
Second is using the scientific approach to development to decide the quantities of stamps distributed.
When the quantity of stamps distributed is large or too great, the practice of stamp collecting is damaged.
The number of stamp collectors is then greatly reduced.
This has been proved by past events.
The quantities distributed of new stamps must be appropriate for the actual situation.
Too many is no good ; too few is no good either.
This is the fourth way to get rid of them.
The destiny of discount stamps is : they came gradually, they 'll go gradually, and despite everything we 'll redouble our speed.