Instead of Fighting among Ourselves, Think of Whether You Have Actual Power to Seek Benefits for Chinese People
zhuxi
Poster : zhuxi-LRB-chairperson-RRB-, Forum : Overseas
Title : Instead of Fighting among Ourselves, Think of Whether You have Actual Power to Seek Benefits for Chinese People
Poster's Site : mitbbs.com BBS-LRB-Wed Jan 3 00:39:42 2007-RRB-
At present, Chinese in the US are already an underrepresented group among the underrepresented groups.
Their actual power is far less than Indians '.
Chinese people's influence on the US politics and society is almost zero.
It can be said that they are typically subject to excessive humiliation-LRB-I did n't misuse the word, well-known US media can openly humiliate Chinese without having to worry about consequences-RRB-.
Under such circumstances, these self-proclaimed, so-called elites, graduates of China's " famous " universities-LRB-Note, I mean China's, there are n't many of those braggarts attending the famous US universities in which their departments are the top ten-RRB-, instead of thinking about how to get united, are getting themselves disabled first.
Assuming that you have achieved the best you have wanted, with only students from your respectful universities left in the US, what would be the result ?
Could things exist with their foundation gone ?
I guess your days would be also numbered.
Indians are waiting to reap profits from your conflict.
If you think I am exaggerating things to scare people, then shut up.
No more wasting your own and other people's time out of boredom.
Be a student, or a researcher, what ultimately counts is the vision.
Nobel prizes are not given to highest scorers on the college entrance exams, but to those who can clearly point the direction in their chosen field.
Playing little clever tricks on minor issues, but blinded to major issues by trifles are not considered to be elites.
Elites at least should " not be muddle-headed in major affairs. "
Those who want to use abusive words, continue to do so.
Even if I would be drowned in your saliva, I still would like to speak for the Chinese compatriots who want to get united.
To put it impolitely, you people and your name will be both gone, while rivers will flow on forever.
In the end, whoever seeks benefits for the Chinese people will be respected by all.
This is not something that you can get through arguments.
--
* Source : mitbbs.com BBS, http:mitbbs.com-LSB-FROM : 75.80.-RSB-