Something Even More Absurd Than the " Breakneck 90 MH On a Snowy Night " ?? My Personal Experience.
poqi
Poster : poqi-LRB-poqi-RRB-, Area : Automobile.
Title : Something Even More Absurd Than the " Breakneck 90 MH On a Snowy Night " ?? My Personal Experience.
Originating site : BBS Unknown Space-LRB-Tue Jan 16 22:51:46 2007-RRB-.
I have deep feelings and a lot of sympathy with the author after reading the article Breakneck 90 mh on a Snowy Night.
It also reminds me of something that I experienced several years ago, also related to an airport and meeting people.
A couple of years ago, my neighbor approached me to borrow my car, saying he was meeting his parents at the airport.
He also said both his wife and children wanted to go.
As his car was too small and mine was big, it could make his parents more comfortable.
He added that he would only use it for one morning and would return it to me before noon.
Although there was only a nodding acquaintance between the neighbor and me, we lived in the same apartment building after all and were both Chinese.
So I discussed with my wife back home and lent him the car as we thought we would not be using the car until the same afternoon.
And then something happened...
At 1:00pm, the neighbor called me, saying he took his parents to a buffet and would probably not to be back until around 3:00pm.
I of course agreed and asked them not to rush.
This wait lasted till 5:30pm, when the neighbor told me in a half-crying tone that there was an accident, and everyone else was intact, except his father, who was in hospital for fractures.
I comforted him first and asked my friend to rush me to the hospital.
My neighbor showed me the police report at the hospital, which indicated it was all my neighbor's fault.
He clashed into a truck going straight when he made a left turn.
My car was completely damaged and had been towed away.
I forced myself to refrain from the grief of loosing my beloved car-LRB-mine was liability-only coverage-RRB-and asked the friend to send their family home.
And then the nightmare began.
The next day, my neighbor called me, saying his father needed to undergo an operation in hospital and asked where the money would come from
I told him part would be covered by my car insurance.
After a while, he called again, saying the operation charge was high and it was difficult for them to afford
I tried my best to comfort him then and told him to think of a way slowly
Just then, a nearly crazy voice of a woman came from the other end of the line, saying her family had just saved several dozen thousand bucks for the down payment of a house ; where would they live afterwards if they spent this.
She also said my car was a Japanese one, which had poor safety performance and it was my car to blame for the car accident.
She added that I should pay the money because the car was mine.
I hung up the phone angrily as the dialog could not go on.
My wife-LSB-pw%-RSB-had been persuading me aside, saying some women would easily lose mind once in fury.
She asked me to take no heed of them and let them calm down first.
So I did n't take their words seriously but still felt angry.
Out of my expectation, a phone call on the third day completely changed my original idea.
The telephone rang just as I was about to go to work in the morning.
I thought it was a sales call and was prepared to end it perfunctorily.
Unexpectedly, coming from the other end of the line was a deep and resolute voice of a middle-aged man.
He said in an incontestable tone that my neighbor had a car accident as a result of borrowing my car, which traumatized them both physically and mentally and harmed their economic interests, and as the car owner, they would not sue me if I compensated them for the hospital charge and the costs of missing work hours-LRB-three times-RRB-, otherwise they would see me in court.
He added that he was certain about the case as a lawyer in business for ten years and the compensation he requested could double in court.
As a great Chinese guy, how could I be scared by a few remarks of the lawyer ?
I also took up the weapon of law for justice.
Of course, I also retained a lawyer.
Out of my expectation, my lawyer solved the problem by merely making two phone calls.
One was to the police station, asking for any additional findings in the investigation report of the accident.
There was additional findings unexpectedly, which were against them.
Someone at the junk yard found a bottle of unfinished wine without the lid inside the car and reported it to the police station.
The police found they put the bottle of unfinished wine in the car without the lid after lunch.
The second call was to their lawyer.
So their lawyer dropped the lawsuit.
Of course, they would not stop it there and came to discuss with me several times, sometimes honey-tongued and sometimes threatening.
The most classic one was : Do n't ever dream of living a life back to China, as we have people across the country.
Disgusting !
Here comes the old topic again, are you going to lend your car if your neighbor or friend asks.
I think many people will say they wo n't.
I would suggest not to lend online.
However, the Internet is after all virtual.
Words sometimes have no emotions.
When your seemingly nice neighbor, seemingly close friend, or a girl whose eyes can speak asks for it in the real world, how many people will answer with a " no ? "
Anyhow, I was not able to do that.
I lent my car to some people in need after that, and I believe there are not many people like my former neighbor couple.
In conclusion, here is a summery of the loss of the two sides :.
Our side : A 02 Camary of 50,000 miles, retaining fee 200. Annual leave two days.
Their side : One leg of the father-LRB-repaired-RRB-, hospital charge : unknown, costs for missing work hours : unknown, retaining fee : unknown.
And most importantly : the dignity and honor of the entire family-LRB-except children-RRB-.
--
* Source : · BBS Unknown Space http:mitbbs.com ·-LSB-FROM : 129.137.-RSB-.