How Should We Care for Our Skin Day-to-Day ?
Amy
Who does n't want soft, white skin ?
But in real life our skin often gives us a hard time.
If it's not darkness or redness in the face, it's dull and pallid.
What can we do ?
Appropriately adjusting our diet could bring great improvements for our skin.
Whatever is the problem with your skin, you should prescribe " vegetables " based on your symptom.
Red face : this is caused by absorbing too much animal fat or protein.
The way to treat this is : when we eat foods containing animal fat or protein, we must supplement it with vegetables that contain plenty of chlorophyll, like spinach, celery or lettuce.
If we eat them raw, the effect is better.
We can also chop vegetables into tiny bits, wrap them in cloth, squeeze the juice and drink it.
Flushed face : the reason is poor circulation of blood, particularly a lack of blood flow to the epithelial cells.
When the weather is cold, people's faces go red, particularly the tips of their noses.
The way to treat this is : 1. Frequently bathe and massage to make the blood flow freely.
Massage the red parts more.
2. To make the body fully absorb proteins better, we should eat plenty of food containing vitamin B1 and vitamin C.
We can improve our absorption of vitamin D by exposure to sunlight.
Oily dark face : this is caused by consuming too many animal oils and vegetable oils.
The way to treat this is : control the amount of animal and vegetable oils we consume and eat more vegetables containing chlorophyll.
Before we eat, we should drink a glass of vegetable juice diluted with warm boiled water.
The effect will be better.
Dark face : generally speaking, the skin of people who consume too much salt is rough and dark.
After exposure to the sun it is even worse.
The hands and feet going black is caused by the salt in the body needing to be flushed out through the extremities.
If we consume too much salt, our face will gradually be covered with a layer of dark skin.
The way to treat this is : 1. control our intake of salt, drink plenty of water to flush out the salt through our urine.
2. Bathing frequently, and soaking in the bathroom until you sweat, can also help to flush out some salt.
Freckles on the face : consuming too much salt may cause freckles to appear on the face.
And if in our diet we only absorb animal fats and protein, this will affect the normal functioning of liver and make the freckles more visible.
So those with freckles must eat plenty of fruit and vegetables.
As well as this, medicine is the great enemy of the skin.
Sedatives in particular will make the body produce too much acid.
The hormones will become unbalanced and freckles will appear on the face.
Click here for more detailed information : www.120zy.com.