Guangzhou Starts Puffing Itself up-LRB-reposted from Moonlight blog-RRB-
Dift Wu
I went to sina.com today and suddenly saw a " strange " article from China Business News : " Guangzhou to Become First Mainland City with a GDP per Capita of over 10,000 US Dollars " <http:news.sina.com.cnc2007-01-04051211947888.shtml>.
It says that the mayor of Guangzhou has said that calculated by the number of people registered as residents, the GDP per capita of Guangzhou this year will exceed 10,000 US dollars.
The reason I thought it was strange was because according to some data that I already knew about <http:www.williamlong.infoarchives459.html>, Guangzhou's GDP per capita should only reach the target of 10,000 US dollars in 2010.
Even though the RMB has increased in value, it still could n't be this fast.
This figure must have something wrong with it.
And the reason for the problem was still the population figure.
Shenzhen and other cities all calculate GDP per capita using the permanent resident population in the calculation.
For cities with such large migrant populations, a GDP per capita calculated using the number of registered residents will be very inaccurate.
If Guangzhou calculates the GDP per capita using the permanent resident population, it's obviously puffing itself up.
People from Guangdong are usually very low-key about wealth.
They 'd never compare these vanities with Beijing or Shanghai.
This way, they can pay a little less tax to the central authorities : keeping quiet to get rich.
In addition, everyone is very clear about the situations in Guangzhou and Shenzhen.
For many years Guangzhou has been just a little behind Shenzhen in its economic indices and all aspects.
Its GDP will soon be exceeded by Shenzhen's, yet its population has always been higher than Shenzhen's.
I remember I wrote an article " The Mystery of Shenzhen's GDP per capita <http:www.williamlong.infoarchives459.html>. "
Shenzhen's GDP per capita is calculated using the number of permanent residents, and it is predicted that it wo n't top 10,000 US dollars until about 2008.
How could Guangzhou's leaders make this kind of wild assertion ?
This kind of showing off has never been the style of people from Guangdong.
Various signs show that the new team of leaders in Guangzhou may have been transferred from another region.
They tend to like boasting and like playing number games to seek rewards from the central authorities.
If this really is the case, then Guangzhou's prospects for economic development may be indeed not good.
Fewer empty words and more real action has always been the straightforward style of people from Guangdong.
Only by keeping the wealth among the people can a nation be ultimately rich.
Making the majority of people rich is the most important.
I hope the new team of leaders in Guangzhou will carefully learn from the experiences and lessons of the last few administrations and not to rival with places like Beijing and Shanghai in exaggeration.
Otherwise Guangzhou's development will really be a cause for worry.