Is Blast Demolition Implementation of the Scientific View of Development ?
613305
Posted by-LSB-Qiangguo Wenhai-RSB-at Jan 13, 2007 13:34:56-LSB-SMS-RSB--LSB-Tables-RSB-.
Is Blast Demolition Implementation of the Scientific View of Development ?
Wenhai.
While I was watching a TV channel, I heard from its news, " the tallest building beside the West Lake in Hangzhou was blast demolished only 14 years after completion, because it ruined the West Lake views. "
It is said blasting this " image project " reflects " the scientific view of development " of this Hangzhou government.
It is unbelievable to see the report associate the blast demolition with the scientific view of development.
The high riser has only been used for 14 years.
What does it mean by 14 years ?
If some messy buildings are left undecorated after six years of completion, I think it is not inappropriate at all to describe 14 years as " brand new. "
It took such a great fortune to build a high riser like this, and now it is blasted at an order.
How wasteful it is in ordinary people's eyes.
I will never ever believe everyone in Hangzhou has a place to live in without any impoverished households.
If such a great fortune was from government appropriation, how many tax payers were needed ?
If it was invested by some business person, how many machines were needed to run and how many workers were needed to be busy ?
How many people can receive education and healthcare, among other things, with such a great fortune ?
What is the scientific view of development ?
The core is putting people first.
The scientific view of development will never waste resources at will, or let people bleed and toil in vain.
The scientific view of development emphasizes a conservation-minded society.
The scientific view of development focuses on urban planning.
Maybe some people say this tall building has ruined the West Lake views, and now we have attached importance to the scientific view of development.
I would say please wait.
If Hangzhou has only this one " image project, " the blast of which could restore its original state, it can be barely regarded as " scientific development. "
The problem is whether it will work ?
Hangzhou belongs to people of the entire nation.
So many Chinese have been to Hangzhou.
The Leifeng Tower was fallen down for years, which also symbolized the emancipation of Chinese women, but later on a lot of money was invested to build a fake tower standing beside the West Lake.
A tour guide said : " people often went up to explore the relics before it was built, but they have become reluctant to go up after it was built. "
This affects the West Lake, reducing tourists at the scenic spot.
Should we also push over the fake Leifeng Tower ?
Even if it were pushed over, would things go back to " people going up to explore relics ? "
Thus, blasting the high riser can not be associated with the scientific view of development.
When it was first built, it was for image in spite of public objections.
Some netizens even said it was for political feats, dining out, going on inspection tours, contract awarding, and various other benefits.
If the construction was for image, then the scientific view of development should never be the excuse for its blast demolition.
If it is really designed to implement the scientific view of development, then simply erect a plate at the " fake Leifeng Tower, " which indicates " who " managed the construction of the fake tower.
I guarantee there will be tourists exploring relics.
-LRB-Original works of Wenhai-RRB-.
yan
Construction is science development, and blast demolition is scientific development.