An Intellectual who was a Lifelong Leading Official until Death--A Few Disrespectful Words about Director Ba
613305
-LSB-Ghost turning the mill-RSB-
The lifelong term system of leading cadres is not good, and it has long been criticized by intellectuals.
The so-called idea about the lifelong term system of leading cadres means when the end of a term of office comes, or when a given age is reached, they should step down.
This point has already been put into practice, though not fully implemented in reality.
Some very bad practices have n't been abolished yet : i.e. the lifelong remuneration system for leading cadres.
What is known as the lifelong remuneration system for leading cadres means that when a leading cadre steps down from his senior position, he still retains his level of remuneration such as " division leader level. "
Even worse is that as soon as you become a leading cadre, you are then a leader for life, with no need to worry about any problems of being laid off.
If your department disappears, it does n't matter, either.
A sinecure can always be arranged for you at a salary high enough for you to maintain your integrity, like going to the CPPCC to serve as some deputy chairperson.
If you do n't break the law, you will only move upwards, you wo n't slip downwards.
I think we should completely abolish the life-long term system of leading cadres.
For example, if a person is mayor, when he steps down at the end of his term, he could no longer be given mayor level remuneration.
If he is not able enough and becomes a division leader, then he should be remunerated at the division leader level.
If he's even more incompetent and has been laid off, then he should be like a laid-off factory worker and collect unemployment benefits.
He should n't go to the mayor, but to the markets.
The " iron rice bowl " was broken for workers decades ago.
There is no reason why leading cadres should still be holding onto a golden rice bowl.
I 've had a look at Director Ba's biography and was surprised to find that Director Ba had been chairman of the Writers ' Association since 1983 right up until he passed away.
I think that the Writers ' Association is n't any kind of important department affecting the national economy and people's livelihood and whether it was the lifelong term system would draw nobody's attention.
But Director Ba, as an intellectual who always spoke the truth and stood up for what was right, should have known that the lifelong term system of leaders is not good, and should have been opposed.
Moreover, when Director Ba became chairman of the Writers ' Association, he was already quite elderly.
Doing it for one or two terms, he 'd be +really senile however you look at it.
He had his own health problems.
How could he have that much energy to manage the affairs of the Writers ' Association ?
It would have been better to get off the pot.
In fact, in his last days, Director Ba lay in the hospital, unable even to speak, completely reliant on medical intervention to keep him alive.
Even if he wanted to manage, he would have been unable to.
" Harvest " magazine was created by Director Ba single-handedly, and he was always its chief editor.
Even if later on it was Director Ba Junior who took over the work, it still carried Director Ba's name.
After Director Ba passed away, the magazine still wrote that he was the chief editor.
In the end someone got really mad and filed a legislative complaint.
But this affair had no further development afterwards.
I guess the biggest reason maybe is because of Director Ba's great influence, everyone settled out of court ; both sides gave a little ground, and Director Ba Junior no longer used Director Ba Senior's name in doing advertisements for the magazine.
To say a little more : right now all the intellectuals are all heaping praise on Director Ba's " Random Thoughts. "
They think it " speaks the truth, " " stands up for what's right. "
However, what I like is Director Ba's " Torrents " trilogy and " Cold Nights. "
Director Ba had written the works that made his name, and are his greatest works, before he was thirty.
I believe that what he said at that time was very honest.
He was using his heart and blood in his writing.
If you read the afterwords he's written you 'll know.
He says he was often crying as he was writing.
I 've also seen that Director Ba was +under the deep influence of extreme leftism at that time and said many good things about the totalitarian society.