What shoes to wear for badminton-LSB-ZT-RSB-.
Smash
Poster : Smash-LRB-Simaxie~Ball killer-RRB-, Section : Badminton.
Topic : What shoes to wear for badminton-LSB-ZT-RSB-.
Posting station : BBS Unnamed space station-LRB-Thu Jan 11 15:37:50 2007-RRB-.
Select and buy according to the following :.
Internal support characteristics.
Multidirectional movement during aerobic exercise requires extremely solid shoes.
Each manufacturer provides different internal support characteristics.
Some manufacturers use a molded midsole, so that the foot can land just right inside the shoe ; fibers going all around the shoes can also provide support.
In order to increase shoe flexibility, some manufacturers add a fiberboard padding only at the heel.
External support.
A firm, resistant heel support can greatly reduce heel displacement.
The wider part of the outsole is called the heel fixed strip.
It is made of plastic and spreads all the way around the foot, attached to the heel support.
Many shoes now use a fixed frame ; the fixed frame is a polymer part that is used as support and is distributed longitudinally around the outside of the shoe.
Other stability characteristics include a plastic support strip-LRB-generally connected to the eyelets-RRB-, Velcro hook, middle uppers can also provide side support characteristics.
Shock absorption.
Repeated impacts during aerobic exercise produces unique pressures that generally correspond to five times your body weight.
Therefore good shock-absorbing performance is essential.
The midsole helps to disperse these impacts.
A good midsole is made from extruded EVA or polyurethane.
The various manufacturers have come up with various technologies to further increase the midsole's shock absorption.
If you are someone with insufficient downward tilting, or engage in intense exercise, you may require greater shock absorption than people with excess downward tilting.
Replaceable insoles.
The insole also has a certain shock-absorbing function, but at the same time it is the easiest to ruin.
As for replacing the insole when the shoe is halfway through its life, there is a basic principle involved ; after 150 hours of aerobic exercise, the insole may lose its bounce, and this is when it should be replaced.
-LRB-This varies according to the person and the type of training.-RRB-
Elasticity.
A shoe's elasticity is determined by how you feel when your feet move.
Shoes with just a fiberboard pad at the heel have better flexibility than athletic shoes using a complete fiberboard design.
Athletic shoes with low uppers can also improve flexibility.
Fit.
Your feet may swell when they are under pressure and engaging in aerobic exercise.
The heat produced by intense exercise may cause the feet to swell by half a size.
At the same time, when you buy shoes they should not be too tight ; there should be a space as wide as a thumbnail between the tip of the shoe and your longest toe to ensure that your toes can move freely, and it should fit properly at the heel.
In addition, you should regularly measure the length of your feet, because increasing age and injuries can change the size of your feet.
--
* Source : ・ BBS Unnamed space station http:mitbbs.com ・-LSB-FROM : 70.62.-RSB-.
Smash
Poster : Smash-LRB-Simaxie~Ball killer-RRB-, Section : Badminton
Topic : Re : What shoes to wear for badminton-LSB-ZT-RSB-.
Posting station : BBS Unnamed space station-LRB-Thu Jan 11 15:40:06 2007-RRB-.
" In addition, you should regularly measure the length of your feet, because increasing age and injuries can change the size of your feet. "
That's too much !
Will the feet turn into three-inch " Golden Lotuses " from one day to the next !
--
* Source : ・ BBS Unnamed space station http:mitbbs.com ・-LSB-FROM : 70.62.-RSB-.
yinduasan
Poster : yinduasan-LRB-Mutouasan-RRB-, Section : Badminton.
Topic : Re : What shoes to wear for badminton-LSB-ZT-RSB-.
Posting station : BBS Unnamed space station-LRB-Mon Jan 15 05:15:41 2007-RRB-.
After 150 hours of aerobic exercise, insoles may lose their elasticity, that is when they should be replaced.
This is too dogmatic !
--
* Source : ・ BBS Unnamed space station http:mitbbs.com ・-LSB-FROM : 144.32.-RSB-.
Smash
Poster : Smash-LRB-Simaxie~Ball killer-RRB-, Section : Badminton.
Topic : Re : What shoes to wear for badminton-LSB-ZT-RSB-.
Posting station : BBS Unnamed space station-LRB-Mon Jan 15 09:00:15 2007-RRB-.
I reckon this refers to domestically produced shoes.
But after you add an insole, the impact on the knee joints is much less.
The kind of heel insoles on the Wal-Mart pharmacy shelves are OK.
【 in yinduasan-LRB-Mutouasan-RRB-'s article :】.
After 150 hours of aerobic exercise, insoles may lose their elasticity, that is when they should be replaced.
This is too dogmatic !
--
* Source : ・ BBS Unnamed space station http:mitbbs.com ・-LSB-FROM : 70.62.-RSB-.