.
Setting up an Internet business : What do you need ?
usana-msi
Setting up an Internet business : What do you need ?
Experience in setting up a business : My " boss " dream
Three stages of setting up a business from scratch
The critical path of success
Talking about setting up a business
Now, as the Internet grows, the Internet economy has passed through a " bubble era " and is gradually moving toward a dazzling springtime.
When you look at the IT giants that have sprouted up one after the other on the Internet, do you get excited ?
Are you worried ?
Are you determined ?
Setting up an Internet business is an idea that appeals to people.
Because : 1. Low cost
Unless they are undertaking a very large project, Internet entrepreneurs do not need much capital.
Perhaps one computer + ADSL + a dummy mainframe + a small room and you can get started.
But this is still far, far from success.
Some people may scoff that this ca n't be called setting up a business.
If you have plenty of funds, very sharp thinking, and a classic idea, you do n't need to read what I wrote.
But do n't stick up your nose ; for the time being we 're not talking about the relationship between capital and profit.
You feel that if the cost is insignificant, the profit must not be worth mentioning.
Well, now I'm telling you you're 're wrong.
This traditional cost-profit relationship just does n't work on the Internet.
Because you 've overlooked one thing, and that's your own intelligence and ability.
In setting up an Internet business, this holds a more important position.
The Internet is absolutely a place for the daring to be forceful.
If you have the ability, you can hope to succeed.
2. Low start-up cost
Internet communications are now well developed.
It can be said that all you need is broadband, and you 've solved most of your Internet communication problems and can save yourself a lot of telephone charges.
At the same time, you do n't need to go out and rent a storefront and pay exorbitant rents.
Early on, before you 've formally registered the company, you also do n't have to be bothered with lots of petty charges and taxes.
3. Staffing is very simple ; in the early stages many entrepreneurs start from scratch, with one person handling all tasks.
Because one person can basically cope with everything in the early stages, there is no need to incur personnel costs.
4. The risk is low, so if the business fails, you do n't need to be afraid.
Because the initial investment is low, there are greater opportunities for turnover.
Therefore the entrepreneur can give up without fearing the consequences of failure.
5. High profit
If you succeed early on in setting up your business and continue on down the right path of development, then I congratulate you.
Now you can shout it out : " My Web site is making a profit ! "
But do n't let the first bucket of money you make go to your head.
Do n't forget, the higher you climb, the higher you 'll fall.
Remind yourself that now is the time you need to keep a close watch on developments in market trends and among your competitors.
Promptly adjust your growth strategy.
Only then will you be smiling at the end.
Maybe when you read about the advantages of establishing an Internet business above, your heart was racing and you were thinking you 'd really work hard to make it.
Below I'm going to discuss some of the areas that you need to pay attention to when setting up an Internet business :
1. Use your own unique vision to examine the Internet and look for new ways to make a profit.
Aggressively investigate new projects ; avoid blindly imitating others.
Are there lots of people doing this kind of thing on the Internet ?
If a flashA.com appears on the Net today, tomorrow there will be flashC.com and flashD.com.
If that's the case, your odds of failing just increased by 30 %.
Remember : If you 're always following on somebody else's tail, then what you'll get will always be someone else's trash, picked over, cast aside and unused.
Of course we 're not opposed to imitating, but what we should think about is why is this person taking that route, and not which route is this person taking.
Then we will study the line of thought and the skills he used to solve problems.
So we will gain more than he did.
2. If you 've selected a given project and are carrying it out, then you should definitely carry it through to the end ; avoid switching course in midstream.
Of course when I say see it through to the end, this does not mean to continue blindly, sticking with it even when you know full well it's hopeless.
What I mean is, do n't be distracted, doing SMS today and selling things tomorrow, with a new approach every day.
You see somebody else doing something that makes money, and you think you want to do that.
Your website is simply the " art of changing your look " like in Sichuan opera.
A new face every day, completely different.
What I recommend is that when you set up your business you should give it careful consideration and fully investigate its feasibility.
Once you set out to do something, you should pursue the goal you set for yourself, sticking with it unless really forced to give up.
3. Use your hands, eyes and brain, be observant and alert, and consider all possibilities.
Avoid acting rashly when you set up your Internet business.
Your mind needs to be sharp ; the Internet offers virtually unlimited business opportunities ; maybe it's just a small opportunity, but you should seize it.
Then maybe you will succeed.
Otherwise if the opportunity was right in front of you and you did n't seize it.
So... you need nimble hands.
If you come upon something important, by all means make a note of it, and so on.
Your eyes need to be sharp : you need to spot changes in the IT situation right away and quickly prepare a short-term business plan.
Like right now, many portal sites are seizing the opportunity of the Olympics to considerably increase their traffic.
I think advertising revenues in this area alone will be considerable.
4. Be tough and resilient : avoid the easy route.
Setting up an Internet business is hard labor.
When you 're just setting up your business, it is sometimes hard to avoid feeling completely exhausted.
Sometimes you 'll just feel like throwing in the towel.
Do n't forget : if you were working for someone else, you would n't like it either, and may feel even worse !
5. You need to learn to look for partners.
6. You need to know what Internet marketing is, and learn how to use it.
Are you looking for an already proven, feasible way to increase your sources of income ?
Are you looking for an opportunity to create both free time and financial freedom ?
Do you have dreams or goals that you want to reach ?
http:whymsi.comawing
http:msi-team.comawing
QQ : 65146050
Address : usana...@gmail.com.
Yahoo messenger : dzh...@yahoo.com.cn.