The Miracle of the Victory over Japan Was Made by the Chinese People Themselves-LRB-the calcium-deficient must read this-RRB-
jilian
Poster : jilian-LRB-jilian-RRB-, Section : ChinaNews.
Topic : The Miracle of the Victory over Japan Was Made by the Chinese People Themselves-LRB-the calcium-deficient must read this-RRB-
Posting station : BBS Unnamed space station-LRB-Tue Jan 30 17:41:07 2007-RRB-.
The Miracle of the Victory over Japan Was Made by the Chinese People Themselves-LRB-the calcium-deficient must read this-RRB-
http:web.wenxuecity.comBBSView.php?SubID=memory&MsgID=106201
Source : Ta Siye on 07-01-27 17:07:38.
" 815 "-our victory day.
（一）
For the Chinese people, today is a special day.
This day came with great difficulty for China.
Before the war, the gap between China and Japan was far greater than mere numbers.
Before the war, China's steel production was less than 200,000 tons-LRB-steel production in China was centered mainly in the northeast, and it was controlled by the Japanese-RRB-.
Japan's was about 9 million tons.
The important thing is that Japan had a complete industrial system and was able to independently produce all its weapons, from handguns to aircraft carriers, and it had a formidable research production capacity.
At that time, every year they were able to produce 1,580 airplanes, 744 large-bore cannon, 330 tanks,, more than 9,500 vehicles, with a shipbuilding capacity of more than 400,000 tons and a naval construction capacity of 50,000 tons.
Compared to this, at the time China could only produce rifles and small cannon ; its capacity to produce heavy weapons was zero.
The only munitions plant capable of producing heavy weapons in the northeast was taken over by the Japanese.
This means that China's consumption could not be met.
Before the war, China's air force had some 300 airplanes ; that may seem like quite a few, but they were all used up in just one year, and afterward we could only watch as Japanese aircrafts ruled the skies over China.
On the surface, China is a large country, and Japan was the little guy taking on the giant.
The most obvious part of China's being a big country was its population advantage.
In fact Japan's total population after it had taken over Taiwan, the Northeast, and Korea was not so very much smaller than China's, with about 200 million people, at best a 2:1 ratio.
The important thing is that Japan had a complete reserve system, with more than four million reserves who had received basic military training.
China had basically no reserve military personnel, and the " national army " relied primarily on seizing able-bodied men to fill its ranks.
These so-called able-bodied men were sorely lacking in training ; all they could do was learn to fight in battle.
Therefore, in the field, it often happened that a Japanese battalion-LRB-battalion system-RRB-was able to defeat a whole division of the Chinese army ; it was not just the difference in equipment : even more important were the differences in logistical supplies and training.
> The training gap in particular can be said to have been the difference between earth and sky.
In terms of the standards of Western armies, except for a few divisions, at the time for most of the millions of Chinese military units of every description it would be more appropriate to speak of militia, or mobs of bandits.
What was even more disheartening was China's disintegration :
After ten years of bloody battles between the Nationalists and the Communists, and among the warlords like Jiang, Feng, Yan and Gui, China's vital organs were diseased, and it was like adding frost on top of snow.
Japan's plans to " conquer China in one attack " and to " take China in three to six months " were not mere fantasy.
China's low-key War of Resistance also had a basis in reality : it seemed that without a miracle, China would be doomed.
-LRB 2-RRB-
But the miracle happened, and what is more, this miracle was created by the Chinese people !
In the face of an unprecedented national enemy, the Chinese race demonstrated rare courage and fortitude.
In terms of their military strength, China's army taking on the Japanese army was like an egg attacking a rock.
But the eggs advanced again and again, and the wounds on the rock added up !
In Shanghai, in Taierzhuang, in Wanjialing, the prestige of the " Great Japanese Imperial Army " came tumbling down again and again.
In his memoirs, Li Zongren took great delight in talking about Taierzhuang, where he used cast-off troops, Sichuan troops and Northeastern troops to inflict heavy losses on the supremely arrogant " Great Japanese Imperial Army " ; in his own view, it was all rather inconceivable.
For four years, from 1937 to 1941, China fought against Japan on its own, and it even counterattacked.
China organized a winter offensive on the front in 1939.
In 1940 there were a hundred battles in the enemy's rear area, which let the Japanese army know that their enemy was still alive and kicking.
In order to resolve the " China incident, " Japan sent in even young boys to fight ; at the height of it, there was only one division left in Japan.
Of course if Japan had fully mobilized, it could have called up several million more troops, as in the later time when they knew they were about to be annihilated.
But mobilizing troops at home and sending them off to another country are two different things ; it was just that their logistics could n't support it.
Troops leaving the country to fight need to be lean and vigorous.
It was n't that the Japanese did n't want to settle the " China incident, " it was that they could n't.
What created this miracle in reality was the awakening of the sense of modern Chinese nationhood.
In historical China, you were loyal to the emperor, not to the country.
Yue Fei directly smashed the home of the enemy in order to wash away the " shame of Jingkang and the officials ' regret. "
When Shi Kefa wept blood, it was for the death of the Chongzhen Emperor.
In the War of Anti-Japanese Resistance, the Chinese people burned with an enormous patriotic fervor, and they demonstrated a fierce determination to resist.
In their memoirs, generals of the Nationalist army mention that when they were wounded in the civil war no one paid any attention, and they themselves all felt like thieves.
But generals wounded fighting the Japanese received endless fresh flowers in condolence, making them feel like the center of attention.
This was such an enormous contrast that it was a great stimulus for the Nationalist army generals.
With the fatherland in jeopardy, even overseas Chinese demonstrated unprecedented patriotic fervor, vigorously supporting China's War of Resistance, providing both manpower and financial aid.
Large numbers of overseas Chinese returned to fight ; in some years the aid donated by overseas Chinese amounted to one-half of the government's expenditures, creating a fresh contrast to the historically poor image of the Chinese as lacking civic pride and being politically indifferent.
During the War of Resistance, overseas Chinese donated hundreds of times more money than did overseas Japanese.
The Central Army, the Jin Army, the Sichuan Army, the Northwest Army, the Gui Army, etc., and of course the Eighth Route Army and the New Fourth Army, which until then had been implacable enemies, came together to rescue the imperiled nation, and that was not an easy matter.
At the time, the officers and men of the Red Army almost all had an account of blood and tears.
The Nationalist Army's purging of the Red Army base areas was no less fierce than the Japanese policy of killing, burning and looting.
If we think of the end of the Ming Dynasty, when the state was about to fall, the southern Ming continued its bickering, with endless internal disputes among the various princes who all seemed to be enjoying it.
-LRB-In Jin Yong's masterpiece, Luding Annals, just for the sake of selecting an heir between Zhu Three and Zhu Five, two royal families started fighting and got one of the key persons killed, which stirred up a great storm.-RRB-
The state of disunity repeatedly lamented by Sun Yatsen had quite unexpectedly turned to unity, and at least in the early phases of the War of Resistance all sides basically cooperated in good faith and all made an effort ; it ca n't be said that this is not a miracle of history.
For example, Brothers Magic Sky-LRB-Chen Qingpin, Chen Zhonghou-RRB-previously read a book ; the author signed his name as " Shaohua, Youhu. "
The book was entitled " Lin Biao : His Life "
In the ninth chapter, " First Medal in the War against Japan, " it mentions that after the great victory at Pingxingguan, Lin Biao was accidentally wounded.
At the time, the chief of staff and front-line commander of the Kuomintang's second theater of operations, Wei Lihuang, got the news and made a special trip to Ershilibao in Yan'an to extend his condolences.
The next day, he was unexpectedly detained as he returned to Xi'an, and he personally ordered that the Eighth Route Army be given a million rounds of ammunition, 250,000 hand grenades, and 180 boxes of cartons of beef.
" Thirty days later, when more than ten military trucks brought the ammunition and canned beef to Ershilibao, a flush of red appeared on Lin Biao's pallid face, and he said repeatedly, " It's a huge gift, it's a huge gift ! "
This shows that the War of Resistance was the cradle for the rebirth of the Chinese people.
During the war, the Japanese left no stone unturned in threatening to bribe Chinese into collaborating.
But of the many powerful local warlords, not one went over to the other side.
Even outmoded warlords like Yan Xishan in Shanxi, or Long Yun in Yunnan, or Wu Peifu could not be won over.
Compared to the end of the Ming Dynasty, it can not be said that this too is not a miracle.
-LRB-3-RRB-
Around Sept. 18, 1931, China, despite entreaties at the League of Nations, never got any sympathy or support, but after July 7, 1937, China relied on its own resistance to win international respect and assistance ; Heaven helps those who help themselves.
A strong sense of nationhood supported the Chinese people through repeated losses and battles, and helped it get through those dark days.
China's perseverance was just the right thing to strike at Japan's weak spot ; countries like Japan have trouble sustaining a high-intensity war.
The First Sino-Japanese War, the Russo-Japanese War and 918 all ended in a short time, and there were no destructive effects on Japan's economic structure.
On the other hand, each time they fought, they acquired a large amount of booty, which greatly increased Japan's strength.
But the War of Resistance was not like that ; the Japanese were unable to support the war through fighting.
Despite America's strength and wealth, it was even unable to bear the cost of the Vietnam War.
Four years of fierce fighting in China had in fact left Japan exhausted ; military spending was exploding, inflation at home was soaring, supplies were stretched thin, gold and foreign currency reserves were depleted, and the domestic economy was on the verge of collapse, and this enabled America to throttle the Japanese by the neck, meaning that they forced the Japanese to take a highly risky military gamble.
The outbreak of the war in the Pacific was a turning point.
Since Japan is an island, sea transport is its lifeline, so the decisive field of battle was the Pacific.
The Chinese field of battle had already fulfilled its mission.
China did not have the strength to chase out the Japanese army.
And the Japanese did not have the capability to wipe out the " Chongqing army " and the " Yan'an army. "
Both sides could only stay put and wait.
" If allied forces win, China can not lose ;
If the allied forces lose, China can not win. "
Although it upset the Americans, the Kuomintang blamed the Communist Party for not attacking ; the Communist Party accused the Kuomintang of remaining passive, but that was necessary at the time.
Although we were unable to drive the Japanese out, because this exceeded China's industrial capacity and technical and economic levels at the time, " 815 " is still our Victory Day.
Our sacrifice well deserves this victory, because we made every effort.
Among the five victorious nations of the Soviet Union, the United States, China, England and France, China is more qualified than England and France to bask in the glory of victory.
Before WWII, in the area of world industry and modern military affairs, China was really unworthy of mention, not even on a par with Poland, Yugoslavia or any other mid-level European country.
China's contribution to the war against Fascism in fact far surpassed its own abilities.
And this contribution was made using " blood and flesh to build our new Great Wall. "
For this day, millions of Chinese soldiers stained the battlefield with their blood, and tens of millions of ordinary people died, billions of yuan in assets were lost : it was a huge price to pay.
We can not forget our glory, nor can we forget the price we paid.
-LRB-4-RRB-
Several years back Zhou Zuoren and Zhang Ailing's works thrilled a generation.
But some people complained that they have been treated unfairly.
Their works certainly appeal to the emotions and tastes of people nowadays who have gotten rich by various means, and literarily speaking they could sometimes be original.
But literature is a moral force, and the integrity of these easy-living social paragons is even lower than that of thieves ; they certainly have no sense of duty to their country, and it can even be said that they have no shame.
How can they expect to be respected by society as a whole ?
What kind of soul do their works have ?
If we can forgive Zhou Zuoren and Zhang Ailing, then how, at the very worst, can we face Zhao Yiman, Yang Jingyu and Chao Shangzhi, who at the same historical period crawled over ice and slept in snow, willing to die rather than yield ?
Our world is still not peaceful ; our enemies are still eyeing us covetously.
Wang Jingwei, Zhou Zuoren, Zhang Ailing and their ilk should be relegated to history's wall of shame forever.
--
* Source : · BBS Unnamed space station http:mitbbs.com ·-LSB-FROM : 72.92.-RSB-.