Cultural Revolution ? Makes Me Think of the Past
iseesea
Poster : iseesea-LRB-iseesoisee-RRB-, Section : Overseas.
Topic : Cultural Revolution ? Makes Me Think of the Past
Posting station : BBS Unnamed space station-LRB-Wed Jan 24 00:42:30 2007-RRB-.
This anti-Cui " movement " made me think of the past.
When I was in junior high school, a man who lived nearby died ; I do n't know why, but rumors started flying, everybody said his wife murdered him.
The two of them had been together for many years, and at the time their two children were older than I was.
This man was very honest, and the woman had always been very sociable, and even though the medical examiner had already examined the body, I do n't know where all this talk came from, but the man's family insisted on reopening the casket and re-examining it.
This affair stirred up quite a hubbub in our little town.
My mom, too, just kept discussing it on and on.
To my mind it was totally uninteresting, I just felt these middle-aged women were extremely suspicious, and I could n't see what all the fuss was over that woman.
Then one day my mom was at the table, the saliva spraying, and I just could n't stand it anymore.
Mom, do n't keep repeating what other people say, OK ?
You say somebody killed somebody ; what proof do you have ?
My mom rapped her chopsticks on the table : You 're just a kid, what do you know ?
There are no waves without wind ; if this were nothing, people would n't be talking about it so much.
I did n't dare answer the old lady back, but I thought to myself : Just wait and see, wait until this woman has been proven innocent, then you wo n't have anything to say.
This woman was really quite a character ; not only was she on good terms with some of the bigwigs at the plant, she was also quite familiar with the head of the city's public security bureau, who had been transferred over temporarily from the plant.
The matter of whether to open the casket dragged on and on, and finally, because the pressure from public opinion was so great, they re-examined the body, and the result was poisoning.
When that came out, everybody was in an uproar.
To calm the public, finally there was a trial, and the woman was found guilty of murdering her husband.
Everybody felt that, in such a case, she would certainly get the death penalty, but she was given a stay of execution.
After several years, the head of the city's public security bureau became head of the provincial public security department, and then some people said that again this woman might show up in the provincial capital.
I think that if the world did not have " wretched men " who waste endless time tangled up in this sort of thing like Cui's, or " big-mouthed women " like my mother, people like them, who I feel have always been good at certain things, then people would be able to get away with murder or other crimes.
--
* Source : ・ BBS Unnamed space station http:mitbbs.com ・-LSB-FROM : 76.171.-RSB-.