The Story of Teeth-LRB-6-RRB-
duduyuu
Poster : duduyuu-LRB-Xiaobai-not the little dog of Shin-Chan's, but a pot-RRB-, Area : Beijing.
Title : The Story of Teeth-LRB-6-RRB-.
Originating site : BBS Unknown Space-LRB-Thu Jan 25 21:38:45 2007-RRB-.
I have kept the good habit of having my teeth cleaned ever since I knew it could claim my life if I abruptly go to clean my teeth after years of leaving them uncleaned.
After my still upright but " left-tilting " teeth crouched in my mouth safely and soundly for another two years, another revolution erupted half a year after I graduated and found a job.
The revolution could be said a rudimentary one, which made me decide eventually to eliminate all the betrayers and heretics in one action !.
The incident was caused by a molar.
The location of the tooth was just next to the broken wisdom tooth that led to my first visit to an American dentist.
For some unknown reason, when I was eating the other day, the tooth suddenly ached during the meal, and it was very painful.
Unexpected I heard a " crack " while I was eating, and part of the tooth fell off !.
I could not remember eating anything hard ?!.
I rushed to the dentist, who said root canal therapy upon seeing it, your dental nerve had come out !.
I did not know what root canal meant but thought the name was quite fancy.
It was after I began to receive it that I found it really painful !.
For example killing the nerves, and dealing with the dental crown...
I asked the dentist then why my tooth broke.
After examining my 25 teeth, the dentist told me seriously that the teeth on the right side were somewhat " cross biting " due to the " parallel shift " of my teeth, such that the upper and lower right teeth were always against each other.
The wrong position had led to uneven abrasions, resulting in the broken tooth.
I asked what solutions are available ?
The dentist said " correction. "
Thus, three years after I ran away from the " brigand orthodontist, " I stepped into the orthodontist's office again...
--
Hard work without talent is a shame, but talent without hardwork is a tragedy !
-LRB-are you a shame or a tragedy ?? or maybe a " Shamgerdy ? "-RRB-.
* Source : · BBS Unknown Space http:mitbbs.com ·-LSB-FROM : 68.109.-RSB-.