Qingqing 20070107.
bill shen
Cloudy, temperature approx. 2 degrees.
While Qingqing was rinsing her mouth for the second time last night, mom said : leaks air and leaks rain.
Qingqing was unhappy upon hearing that.
She pounded mom with her little fists.
Dad also scolded mom : you also leaked air and leaked rain while your permanent teeth grew in your childhood.
Qingqing looked at Mom with water in the mouth.
At last, she said to mom after spitting it into the basin : I meant to spew it on your head.
Dad praised Qingqing for being thoughtful : knowing what she should do.
Qingqing played in bed after waking up in the morning.
Dad yelled, but she would n't get up and wanted to play a little longer.
Dad looked at Qingqing and teased Qingqing : how come this kid opens her eyes while sleeping ?
How come this kid sounds like " enen " while snoring ?
Qingqing told dad : I am just teasing you.
After she got up and dressed, she would n't eat the red bean buns or red sticky rice congee prepared by dad.
Instead she asked for soaked biscuits and did drawings in the room after finishing.
After a simple lunch, Qingqing wanted to buy stickers at Jinsheng.
She bumped into grandma on her way and also saw a lost dog advertisement on a wire pole.
Dad read to Qingqing, and then we arrived at Jinrunfa by shuttle bus, but could n't find the stickers that Qingqing wanted.
We then went to Jinsheng, where we finally found them.
Dad bought four volumes :.
One for each of her two sisters.
One to be placed at Qingqing's home and one at her kindergarten.
Qingqing arranged everything very well.
We got on the bus to dine out.
Mom asked Qingqing to make a choice : is the back of the bus empty or full.
Qingqing first chose " full. "
When it was almost there, Mom asked Qingqing to choose again, and Qingqing chose " empty. "
Qingqing said after getting off : I won.
Mom said : I intentionally let you win, otherwise you will lose.
Qingqing wanted to pee on the way, dad had to hold Qingqing to pee by the tree.
It was very cold, and dad tidied Qingqing's pants quickly.
Qingqing wanted to play with the sticker after we arrived at the hotel.
Dad discussed conditions with Qingqing : dad will let you play if you eat well.
Qingqing agreed and began to play again.
Mom said she wanted to swap to another place, but dad wanted to let Qingqing stay longer in the sun.
Qingqing was so obsessed with playing that she would n't have dinner.
Dad had to put away Qingqing's sticker book and asked Qingqing to eat well.
Qingqing said it was spicy and she would n't eat.
Mom promised to buy Qingqing white fungus broth later.
Qingqing became happy immediately and played on.
We walked home after eating, and Qingqing played in her own room after dinner.
Dad said it was time to sleep, but she would n't sleep until after she played for a while in bed.
She told dad that she wanted to take one book to the kindergarten.
Qingqing said today : the teacher said last time that she would repay the money she borrowed from me the next day, but she has not repaid yet.
Oh ! Grown-ups would n't live up to their words either.
Dad promised to remind the teacher for Qingqing.