I thank my Beijing friends and wish everyone a Happy New Year.
mikecat
Poster : mikecat-LRB-mikecat-RRB-, Section : Beijing.
Topic : I thank my Beijing friends and wish everyone a Happy New Year.
Posting station : BBS Unnamed space station-LRB-Mon Jan 1 12:05:53 2007-RRB-.
A month ago, I was really desperate, I lost my current job, which I was completely unprepared for, and had to find a job within a month to keep myself going.
Now in this month with the Christmas holiday there's really only three weeks of actual work time, and I do n't think any companies are going to be hiring people during this period.
Despair, that sinking feeling weighing on my mind, so much pressure I could n't eat, could n't sleep ; I was simply going crazy.
But I still needed to do something ; getting crazy-hysteric makes no sense.
Then I started connecting with my friends in America ; I went to Maimaiti to ask for help, consulted about my status, and looked for a way to solve the problem.
Even my relatives ' friends in America and my parents ' friends all got involved.
Friends, it's always friends who help me at key moments.
Many friends got people they knew to recommend me, help me send out resumes, or call and commiserate with me.
There was one friend who had just got an offer, but he did n't want to go, so he recommended me to go for him, but it was way off in LA, plus the salary was n't ideal, but at least it could help me keep the legal status, so I thought I would take it.
After the telephone interview, I flew to LA, landing at 12:00 noon, and at 4:00 p.m..
I had the interview.
By then 17-18 hours had passed since I 'd gotten up at 4:00 a.m.
Although I was too tired to walk, I still had to pump up my spirits so I 'd be in peak form for the interview.
The interview did n't last long, just two hours and it was over.
I felt the interview went well, and started to feel confident.
But on that day one senior level person was n't there, so the next day early I had to go back to talk to him.
So the next day I got up at 7:00 and ran over to chat for an hour ; that guy was nice, did n't embarrass me, so after an hour it ended happily.
After that the boss took me to the home office, and on the way he gave me an oral offer, and he said it would not be easy for me to come right away, that I should do the physical exam immediately and do all the paperwork, wait until after New Year's, and the HR director would return and turn in the H1.
Then I went straight for the physical, and I filled out the application form, reference list, etc.
At 3:00 p.m., the dust finally settled.
Finally before Christmas I received a Christmas present.
Although I still have n't made the final decision to go, at least I have a guaranteed-minimum choice.
So I am thanking everyone for helping me.
I hope that all my friends who are still looking for work will be able to find their ideal job in the New Year.
--
* Source : ・ BBS Unnamed space station http:mitbbs.com ・-LSB-FROM : 72.224.-RSB-.