In Commemoration of Mao Zedong's 113th Birthday, Large-scale Evening Gala " The Sun that Never Sets " Premieres in the Capital !
MCOA Cui Shizhong
In Commemoration of Mao Zedong's 113th Birthday, Large-scale Evening Gala " The Sun that Never Sets " Premieres in the Capital !
Teachers and students at colleges in the capital, in building a harmonious society, reminisce about the great man's charisma.
------" The Sun that Never Sets, " a Large-scale Evening Gala in Grand Commemoration of the 113th Birthday of Comrade Mao Zedong
Comrade Mao Zedong was a great Marxist, a great proletarian revolutionary, strategist, and theoretician.
He is China's greatest patriot and national hero of recent times.
He was a great man of the times who led the Chinese people to completely change their own destiny and national image.
Mao Zedong is the pride of the Chinese people and the Chinese nation.
Mao Zedong transformed China and influenced the world as a great historical figure of the times.
Mao Zedong's name, Mao Zedong's spirit, and Mao Zedong's thought will have increasing influence on China and the world.
Just as General Secretary Hu Jintao said : " In all times and under all circumstances, we must always hold high the great banner of Mao Zedong Thought. "
" The East is red, the sun has risen.
China has brought forth Mao Zedong.
He works for the people's happiness.
He is the people's great savior. "
A melody with infinite passion and vigor exuding from the hearts of hundreds of millions of people bounced and echoed in the sky above the earth, touching even more hearts and souls of those with different skin colors, flowing over countries with different cultures.
Just as MCOA says : whoever is the first to pay attention to Chairman Mao, whoever is the first to learn about Chairman Mao, whoever is the first to profoundly understand the essence of Mao Zedong Thought, whoever is the first to use Mao Zedong Thought and Mao Zedong Spirit to guide one's actions and work will be the first to enjoy the benefits, the first to become strong, the first to be happy, the first to possess wealth, and the first to gain respect of the people.
（www.mcoa.cn）
Jointly sponsored by the Beijing Institute of Civil Engineering and Architecture, " The Sun that Never Sets " national performing tour organizing committee, and the National Market for High-Technology Industry Work Committee, and coordinated exclusively by Zhengzhou State Rail Logistics Rapid Transport Co.. Ltd., the large-scale evening gala " The Sun that Never Sets " will premiere on the evening of December 27, 2006 at the Beijing Institute of Civil Engineering and Architecture.
The theme of this classic red event is cherishing the memory of the monumental contributions of Comrade Mao Zedong, the proletarian revolutionary, carrying forward the spirit of the Red Army's Long March, educating and inspiring the entire party and people of the country's various ethnic groups to unite closely around the Party Central Committee led by Comrade Hu Jintao as general secretary, adhering to a scientific approach to development, pursuing the truth and focusing on practical work in promoting initiatives and innovation, and making utmost efforts to build a socialist and harmonious society.
This year's commemorative event marks the first time " The Sun that Never Sets " has entered a university campus, and for the first time is exclusively supported by the generosity of well-known philanthropist entrepreneur Jiang Yongzhi.
From a keen sense of responsibility toward successors of the future, without expecting any reward, he supports Red Education to recalibrate the outlook on life and values of contemporary college students, in treasuring the hard-won nature of beautiful life, and to encourage college students of the capital to exert themselves for the great revival of the Chinese nation.