So I work in that same beauty salon,
I'm chained to the old masquerade
The lipstick, the shadow, the silicone :
I follow my father's trade-
Leonard Cohen
Michael Jackson may be another example of a celebrity distraction which, upon examination, reveals more about our society's mortal condition than a tabloid could imagine.
Almost certainly more than it would dare to describe.
Yesterday, Jackson was ordered to close Neverland for having failed to pay the ranch's 47 employees their salary or insurance since the end of 2005.
Unfortunate for the unpaid staff and the abandoned llamas but no surprise.
He's moved on since his aquittal, like Gary Glitter did after his 1999 conviction, having departed last June for a Bahrain `` vacation '' from which he's yet to emerge.
-LRB-'' For the people working at Bahrain's malls, the person covered head to toe in a black veil, gloves and glasses appeared to be a rich, doting Saudi mother....
But why would a woman wear a man's shoes ?
Why the bodyguards ?
And why did the person's fluid movements seem so familiar ? ''-RRB-
Last week's real Jackson story ran in the New York Daily News, under the snappy banner `` Creepy dad was root of all clan's woe, singer sez. ''
The singer was brother Jermaine, and the claims based on the projected outline for his abandoned `` tell-all '' family story.
Reading that Joseph was a nightmare of a father and sexually abusive towards his daughters is not exactly a `` stop the presses '' moment.
What's new is this :
Jermaine even suggested his father may have set up Michael to be somehow victimized by older men.
He tells how his father would have Michael join in at late-night hotel room meetings with `` important business people, '' and wondered whether `` something happened '' to Michael at those sessions.
He said he sensed something was wrong because Michael would be sick for days after.
`` What was Joseph doing ? '' Jermaine wrote.
This lifts the Jackson family horror show to a whole new order of dysfunction, one that sees parents network with power and trade their children for privilege.
This should be a motif familiar to anyone acquainted with the literature of mind control and ritual abuse survivors : the father and first controller, passing his child-victim up the social ladder of abuse in return for status, protection and reward.
All that's missing is the element of occult terror.
Or maybe not : `` LaToya also described being awakened in the night by Joseph wearing a ' monster mask. ' ''
Perhaps we can take more from this than the suspicion that the Jackson clan had gotten with the program.
Perhaps rather the point is that the program exploits pre-existing conditions for abuse which are more common than most suspect.
-LRB-This is how I tend to think of Ponchatoula's Hosanna Church.-RRB-
Yet we should n't discount the suspicion, either, particularly given some of Michael's paranormal interests and peculiar associations.
His close friendship with SPECTRA contactee and channeller of the Nine, Uri Geller, for one instance.
-LRB-Jackson was Geller's best man in 2001 when he and his wife renewed his vows, the same year Geller is said to have been reactivated as a psychic spy.-RRB-
His entourage including a `` personal magician '' for another.
Even if you wanted to, you wo n't be reading Jermaine's account now.
Like every Jackson sibling who's tried to break from Joe, he's climbed down, returned to the fold and scrapped the book, apparently on the strength of Michael's threats to sue.
Previously, Michael's given cause for family observers to attribute his grotesque body dysmorphia to a dread of resembling his father.
Yet there they were at Jackson's trial last year, hand in hand.
In the big picture Michael Jackson means not very much.
But his little picture may be more newsworthy than the news suggests.
good stuff.
having departed last June for a Bahrain `` vacation '' from which he's yet to emerge.
Actually, there have been reports for the past two days of Jackson back in California.
#NAME ?
Wild wild stuff Jeff !
Disinformation Distraction Dis and Dat..
The netwerk is as sacred to the state as their mantra `` My way or total annihilation. ''
Bait and switch sets the agenda.
There is no such thing as an accident.
It's Saturday morning, and the papers say a moon of Saturn is spewing life-giving water.... then I see the new R.I. post is about the perrenial child Michael Jackson.
This day is named for Saturn...
"... it was foretold that one day a mighty son of Saturn would in turn overthrow him,
and Saturn devoured all of his children when they were born to prevent this... ''
Apparently Saturn is also intimately connected with Satan, Masonics, and Revelation 13-you know, the `` number of the beast ''...
Nevermind-
I need a cup of coffee...
I looked in vain for the Cheney `` A hunting we will go '' to post this out and paste but...
And on the subject of cowardice, consider this. In a recent hunting escapade, Dick Cheney accidentally shot one of his hunting comrades.
There may have been negligence involved, but that is up to the local district attorney to decide.
But more importantly, I think, is the nature of the hunt.
These were not wild birds.
The birds were bred in captivity.
They had spent their lives in pens, and then on hunting day, were released for the sole purpose of being killed by Dick Cheney and cohorts for pure sport as they flew into the open sky for their only moments of brief freedom.
Whether you are an animal lover or not, there is something disgusting and degrading about this kind of hunt and something less than human about those who participate in it.
The link `` personal majician '' is intrigueing.
From Madsen via Boucher :
Jackson's stay at the Cedars was arranged through David Kuo, George W. Bush's White House director of the Office of Faith-based Initiatives.
Kuo, a former CIA employee... had been Executive Director of the Center for Effective Compassion, founded in 1995 by Arianna Huffington...
Kuo also previously worked for the Christian Coalition and Senator John Ashcroft.
There's also some curious NeverlandDisneyland connections to the `` Mickey Mouse Club '' children who are now stars, including Justin Timberlake-LRB-remember the star on Janet Jackson's breast ?-RRB-and Brittany Spears, Christina Aguilera...
The piper walks into the mountain, still followed by the children, and the cave closes again...
Here is Boucher's follow up to the `` majician '' link of Jeff's.
on the mark as always, jeff,
but i thought you might cover chile's inauguration of its first woman president today instead...
maybe later as the story develops ?
Jeff Boucher's piece mentions how victims of sexual abuse often have childlike voices, almost as if their development was ' frozen ' around the time of their abuse.
Jackson seems to be of this type.
Or more perversely, fakes that he is :
`` I was always saying-LSB-to Jackson-RSB-people would n't think I was so crazy if they saw who the hell you really are, that you sit around, and you drink and you curse and you 're-LSB-expletive-RSB-funny and you have a bad mouth, and you do n't have that high voice all the time ''-
Lisa Marie Presley, in an interview quoted in a WaPo article written by Tina Brown :
Michael Jackson's False Front ?
`` David Geffen, be gone !
Steven Spielberg, be gone ! ''
The witch doctor cursing Michael Jackson's enemies and blessing the tarnished King of Pop himself in a voodoo ritual in Switzerland in the summer of 2000 had promised that the 25 people on Jackson's enemies list-LRB-would soon be dead-RRB-...
Jackson had ordered his then business adviser, Myung-Ho Lee, a U.S.-educated Korean lawyer based in Seoul, to wire $ 150,000 to a bank in Mali for a voodoo chief named Baba, who then had 42 cows ritually sacrificed for the ceremony.
Jackson had already undergone a blood bath...
The pop star, who is said to be $ 240 million in debt, had paid six figures for a ritual cleansing using sheep blood to another voodoo doctor and a mysterious Egyptian woman named Samia, who came to him with a letter of greeting from a high-ranking Saudi prince, purportedly Nawaf Bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud, now the chief of intelligence of Saudi Arabia...
http:www.vanityfair.comcommentarycontentarticles050411roco03c hmm.
According to that Vanity Fair article, Jacko and Uri Geller met through `` that other fellow devotee of children's charities Mohamed Fayed, the chairman of Harrods in London, who believes that the C.I.A. and Prince Philip had Princess Diana and his son, Dodi, killed. ''
Anonymous quoted, `` Jackson's stay at the Cedars was arranged through David Kuo... ''
Hold on--
the Cedars is the headquarters of the Fellowship Foundation, the creepy Christianoid cult with deep political connections.
Here's a bit of the original Madsen article that the Michael Jackson quote comes from :
In 1976, the Fellowship began looking for a permanent headquarters in Arlington.
It set its sights on the estate of George Mason IV, The Cedars, located at 2301 North Uhle Street.
Mason was one of the drafters of the Bill of Rights.
The Fellowship, also known as the International Foundation, bought the property from Charles Piluso.
Although not much is known about Piluso, the Los Angeles Times reported that Howard Hughes, the man with whom Fellowship Senator Ralph Owen Brewster once sparred, also lived there.
According to a senior Pentagon official, the Cedars had been used as a CIA safe house prior to the Fellowship's purchase of the estate.
The Fellowship paid $ 1.5 million for the Cedars, the money coming from Tom Phillips, the CEO of Raytheon, and Ken Olsen, the CEO of Digital Equipment Corporation.
Sanford McDonnell of McDonnell Douglas Corporation was another deep-pocketed supporter of the Fellowship through Full Gospel Business Men's Fellowship International, an activity linked to Fellowship core member Pat Robertson.
Suffer the little children, eh ?
If this is what power & wealth does to you, I'm damn glad I have neither.
You said, `` Perhaps rather the point is that the program exploits pre-existing conditions for abuse which are more common than most suspect. ''
Could n't agree more.
I think that pedophilia's relative commonality is what really makes it frightening.
My experience happened when I was 15.
A friend of mine met this guy who was twice our age & who was more than willing to buy us all the whiskey we could drink.
We were both enamored with Kerouac & Jim Morrison & meeting strange characters & this guy definitely fit the bill.
He was muscle for a Pittsburgh madam named Tex Gill.
She dressed like a man & ran most of the massage parlors in Pgh.
He was into black magick & Crowley & booze & drugs & on & on.
So, one night, we 're at his apartment, drunk out of our minds,
& my buddy passes out.
I continue drinking.
At one point, I glance at this older guy,
& he is staring at my buddy as a line of drool runs down the cigarette in his mouth & drips on to the floor.
I think, ' What the fuck ? '
but I'm pretty goddamn wasted
& reality is having a helluva time penetrating the fog in my head.
He notices that I'm kind of staring at him.
He stands up, walks into the bedroom, & comes back with a porno mag.
He drops it on the couch next to me.
As he's sitting down, he says, `` See anything you like ? ''
& then he shoves his hand hard into my groin.....
.... & I broke his nose with my elbow.
Make no mistake though, up till that point, the guy scared the shit out of me.
But, lucky for me, my reaction was see red anger instead of cowering fear.
After i hit him, I jumped up, ran into his kitchen & grabbed a big old butcher knife, ran back into the room & proceeded to kick my buddy into consciousness & drag his comatose ass the hell out of there.
Now, for me, the interesting part happened years later.
At the time, my buddy & I were selling things.
My buddy had a real good supplier for these things but it was his secret.
At one point, my buddy could n't pick up the shipment so I had to go.
Before I left, he had to explain to me that his supplier was none other than Freddie Feelup.
I decided to go.
He was now closer to 40 & just a hollow shell of his former self.
Friendless, his only company being neighborhood teens looking to party.
He kept one room empty except for 4 black candles in each of its corners.
he would read curses aimed at people who pissed him off.
Really pathetic.
About a year later, a few of those teens took an intense dislike to Freddie & the beat him to to death.
I ca n't imagine why.
Can you ?
I apologize for continuing my ramble but...,
... I do n't know how you folks would classify pedophilia.
Maybe a 30 year old man & a 15 year old boy does n't qualify.
I wonder about that myself, but I have to say that when I was 30, I was n't plying 15 year old girls with booze & copping feels.
I 'll shut up now.
Speaking of Pat Robertson-
I remembered something about him being linked with Victor Bout and the UAE two-step currently going on :
Bout was Liberian dictator Charles Taylor's primary arms and diamond smuggler...
Taylor, who is now in exile in Nigeria, was a business partner with Christian Coalition founder Pat Robertson... in a Cayman Islands front company called Freedom Gold, Ltd.
In fact, Freedom Gold was headquartered at Robertson's CBN offices in Virginia Beach, Virginia.
Robertson's African interests also crossed paths with Bout's in another country--the former Zaire.
Robertson's African Development Company used the cover of Robertson's tax-exempt `` Operation Blessing '' to ferry conflict diamonds out of civil war-ravaged Zaire-LRB-now Congo-RRB-.
One of Bout's many assets is New Millennium Air Company of Gambia.
The Director of this firm is `` Baba Jobe ''.
-LRB-hmmm-
`` Baba ''...-RRB-
http:www.analystnewspaper.comameu_scam_feb21.html
http:www.waynemadsenreport.com
http:www.globalpolicy.orgintljusticewanted20051212ties.htm
My question is, when is a victim guilty of abuse ?
Jackson is definitely a mind-control, SRA victim.
He's programmed.
Neverland sounds like a cryptic command from MKULTRA Wizard of Oz programming.
The bizarre from black-to-white and physical transformation must be the result of biotech advances.
If he does abuse ' his ' children, is he ' guilty ' as such if he is programmed ?
I suspect he is a brilliant cover or red-herring used as a shield by very powerful forces, responsible for God-knows-what at his now-abandoned ranch.
It's very effective, as many ' feel ' that whilst MJ is naive he's not capable of the evil associated with pedophile activity.
This may not be the case, as the public ' persona ' is merely an ' alter ' personality and he may have many other ' personalities ' which are dark.
Then comes the question whether his programmers were programmed themselves.
If so, then they are all guilty of such abuse, whilst being innocent at the same time !
As most abuse is generational, the whole mind-control subject really has to be brought out in the open.
The very technology and tools used on the mind which harm can then be used to heal.
Brr, Pied Piper.
I remember being spooked by that story as a kid.
Heck of a story to tell children.
Talking about strange coincidences... I was trying to write a science fiction story a while back involving Star Gate type research.
I was looking for a cool name for an undercover X-Files type military-occult agency.
Thought of ' SPECTRE ' but that seemed too James Bondish, and modified it to ' SPECTRA '.
Thinking rainbow-type symbology.
Then I find out that ' SPECTRA ' is actually a name with significance in the community.
What the...
... of course, I did read a lot of weird stuff in passing as a kid,
it's certainly possible that I came across it and forgot.
I was n't consciously aware of it, certainly.
It's the most disappointingly *cheesy* 1960s sci-fi kind of name for an astral entity to use, that's for sure.
I never did write that story.
Is n't Michael Jackson, and the entire Jackson clan, Jehovah's Witness ?
There was no mention made of this in either the main post or comments....
It would seem to me that their must be some relationship between that cult organization and all the `` high weirdness '' going on....
no ?
.... and it is a cult.
FBI finally releases report on missing children.
Agency unveils surprising statistics : about one-third of lost kids are black
--AP
Since 1985 nearly 13 million children missing-LRB-those reported-RRB-.
An average of 615,874 per year since 1985. 791,687 in 1995 alone.
This is an extraordinary group here.
I appreciate your candor and your capacity to build a knowledge base with each contributor adding to the thread that moves me in a sonambulant noiseless rush toward the truth.
We are living the dieing
and that is just as productive and rewarding as any other dimension of spirit that I have experienced
If there is just one thing that disappoints me it is that all of the posters here prefer to be anonymous.
It would be wise for you to `` be '' yourself.
I tried to find emails for any that list a profile or website,
but none `` NONE '' of you are out there.
Contact me at my profile email should you care to disclose yourself.
I would like to invite you to participate in FSHOD if that is not too much to ask.
maybe we remain anonymous in preparation for the future.
I'm surprised I have n't heard this mentioned anywhere before, as it ties in perfectly with Jeff's Bizarro Jacko Tabloid post :
In an interview with Blender-LRB-ca n't remember what issue, but Janet's on the cover-RRB-, Janet talks at length about having mulitiple personalities.
I ca n't remember all the details, but there's Janet, the normal pop star, and among others-LRB-and perhaps the most notable in this context-RRB-one she calls `` Strawberry, '' who is geared towards explicit sexual activities.
As I understand, this is a classic alters description.
A Real MAN Would At Least Let A Former Board Member Be Able TO READ The Reason He Had Been Banned, But, I FORGOT I Was Dealing With A Coward !
antiaristo will be disappointed, or HAS HE ALREADY BEEN BANNED, TOO ???
A COWARD DIES A THOUSAND DEATHS. A HERO DIES BUT ONCE !!!!!!!!
Saint Alexander the Foolish, circa Third Millennium, a.D. Janet Jackson ;
`` Strawberry Bounce '' lyrics :
Bump the beat
Just watch the way I pump it
The way I work it's gon na keep you cumin'
Do a dance that's so sensual
I'ma make you Lose Control
Do n't trip
You know you wan na watch this
I'm a pro you wo n't be disappointed
Gon na leave you beggin' for more
I'ma make you Lose Control
Glad someone finally mentioned Janet.
I think the practice of black magic is something she and her brother have in common.
One mus n't forget her now infamous superbowl `` nipple '' stunt.
Rather than the ridiculous accident censors tried to make it out to be, I think it has to be recognized as a planned, purposeful piece of black magic, perpetraited literally in front of the world, on a very alchemically significant day and time
-LRB-goes way beyond a ' publicity stunt, does n't it ? '-RRB-
A friend even suggests that during her much earlier ' Rythm Nation ' period, in which she dons a black uniform and uses strange, synchopated hand movements in her video dance routine, that that too, is a kind of twilight language, intended on sending a specific message, in order to have a desired effect.
It's possible that jacksons have been using the occult arts for a long, long time.
I 'd love to hear someone else's thoughts on this-
Here's a link to just a wee bit more about Jackson and her alleged MPD-
http:dave.typepad.comdave200406janet_jacksons_.html
I posted above that The Cedars, where Michael Jackson was mentioned as having stayed for a time, was the center of the Fellowship Foundation.
I just ran across the Fellowship Foundation again, when looking for something to explain the anomalous situation of recently-disgraced Republican shoplifter Claude A. Allen.
The quote below is from the LaRouchies--and thus, as always, not to be considered 100 % reliable--
but in this case it fits in so well with the ongoing discussion that I'm tentatively inclined to trust it :
DeLay's career and power became at the same time a central project for all three of the shadow partners, Grover Norquist, Jack Abramoff and Ralph Reed.
DeLay was by no means a random point of interest.
Tom DeLay staggered into Washington as a freshman Congressman in 1984, a terrible drunk, his life dissolving.
Rep. Frank Wolf-LRB-R-Va.-RRB-approached him with a road to salvation.
He reportedly showed DeLay a videotape that made him weep.
Tom DeLay then radically changed his life, turning his soul over to higher powers.
But by all reliable accounts, DeLay became a much nastier, a fearsomely un-Christian individual.
Frank Wolf represented an old `` black operations '' soul-robbing agency known as the Fellowship Foundation.
Practicing secrecy on about the same level as the National Security Agency, the Fellowship does conduct one public function--
it runs the huge annual CongressionalPresidential Prayer Breakfast in Washington, with similar events managed inside the Pentagon and at other government and military sites.
The Fellowship Foundation-LRB-earlier called International Christian Leadership and a succession of cover names-RRB-was created before World War II by the organization of the pro-Nazi Frank Buchman.
Sen. H. Alexander Smith-LRB-R-N.J.-RRB-, Buchman's lieutenant who in 1940 had called for a joint world dictatorship of the United States, Britain, and Nazi Germany, brought the Fellowship into acceptance in Washington.
In the 1950s, the group was sponsored by former Nazi SS officer, Holland's Prince Bernhard, and the Dutch royal family.
The Fellowship runs a house near the U.S. Capitol, where Congressmen and Senators, who are members, live.
For example, Sen. Sam Brownback-LRB-R-Kans.-RRB-, the delirious End-Timer, has lived in the cult's house in Washington.
Raytheon CEO Tom Phillips and other figures in the military-industrial complex, pay the bills.
The Fellowship specializes in taking over the lives of potentially powerful individuals who have become somehow ruined, and promising them dominion in the world if they will play along.
Watergate dirty-trickster Charles Colson, when he was on his way to prison and suddenly powerless, was recruited, and turned his life over to the Fellowship.
Colson's Prison Fellowship Ministries is a subordinate unit of the cult, with its tentacles in most prisons in the United States.
After Tom DeLay was zapped, Charles Colson became DeLay's personal guru.
Colson's militancy for the End-Times war on Muslims has made him a congenial companion to Jack Abramoff in their keeping of DeLay--Abramoff has repeatedly led Tom to Israel to call for all-out war against the Arabs.
And Christian Coalition co-founder Pat Robertson was himself a product of the Fellowship magic.
Robertson was the good-for-nothing playboy son of Sen. A. Willis Robertson-LRB-R-Va.-RRB-, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee.
Pat began speaking in tongues and uttering prophecies under the guidance of Harald Bredesen, a master training agent of the Fellowship group, who had proved himself to the highest circles of British intelligence.
Pat Robertson started off as assistant pastor to Bredesen, whose intelligence partners, the Full Gospel Businessmen's Fellowship, raised the money to expand Robertson's and Bredesen's Virginia-based Christian Broadcasting Network-LRB-CBN-RRB-toward global power status.
The sentence I put in boldface is *extremely* interesting.
Was n't there a Michael Jackson video where he was envisioning himself as ruler of the world or some such ?
to anonymous 9:30 re cults :
`` The reason fear can arise so strongly is that you already have a very strong experience of being brainwashed and used in cultish behavior.
This cult is called society and its ' cult-ure ' gives rise to suffering.
If you look closely, everything that is associated with cult behavior can lisewise be found in society's behavior.
The same means of control are used : the constant reinforcement that you are helpless without society, that you can not survive without obeying its rules and that you will go to hell if you do n't obey the tenets of its religion. ''
--Gangaji
this site monitors Janet Jackson weight !
http:www.egotastic.comentertainmentcelebritiesjanet-jacksonjanet-jackson-is-too-fat-to-sing
Anonymous One, I recall reading somewhere that Lisa Marie was a member of L.Ron's cult.
You will notice that Michael's real troubles started after he suied Sony chief Tommy Mattola, who was heard to say `` he 'll live to regret the day ''.
Do n't ever think of fucken with the evil bastards in the Music biz, later.
Here's a description of that Michael Jackson item I was remembering :
By the time the release of 1995's HIStory album--a double album of greatest hits and new tracks--approached, Michael had fully realized a new perception of himself, one that was truly larger than life.
HIStory was hyped with a four-minute teaser video.
This extravagant production begins with a colossal army goose-stepping through a European city in crisp, tan uniforms, waving red flags and sporting red-and-black insignias.
Military music pounds.
Crowds swell at the sidelines, screaming and crying.
The implication seems to be these men represent Nazis.
But then, their leader is revealed to be Michael, marching right up front.
When peasant workers break free to touch Michael, they are immediately swallowed by soldiers.
Suddenly, it is night, and a tarp-covered, skyscraper-sized structure looms over the poor nation as choppers spray spotlights across it.
Brainwashed fans scream, salute with one arm and light candles with religious zeal.
Signs proclaiming `` King of Pop, '' a title Michael disavowed to Oprah only two years earlier, are everywhere, emphasizing the word `` King. ''
Finally, the tarp drops, and it is, of course, a gargantuan, bronze statue of Michael, fists clenched defiantly, his star insignia prominent, yet his face still somehow child-like and unthreatening.
The video is a highly disturbing piece of work.
His bloated sense of importance is not only chilling, it is threatening.
Suddenly, Michael's perfect world of OzNeverland is forced to be compared with an Aryan Nation, one that substitutes children for Hitler's master race.
Large image of the Michael Jackson HIStory statue.
There is some sort of an emblem with a star on his shoulder, but it's at an angle and not easy to make out clearly.
''... a haughty spirit goeth before a fall. ''
BTW-and off topic :
Check out this superb psyop image.
Jeff, I do n't think even you could do better than this :
http:www.msnbc.msn.comid11800917
Remember who Janet shared the stage with at the Superbowl ?
Yes, you remember correctly : former Mousketeer Justin Timberlake.
Hmmm.
The plot thickens.
JW's and child abuse.
http:news.bbc.co.uk1hiprogrammespanoramalive_forums2124808.stm
BTW Jeff-I 'd caught the GellerJackson connection a while back and posted on the discussion board.
Fascinating how this all seems to be inter-related.
hmmm...
in March 2003 Jackson distraction-o-mania was part of the media smokescreen that led up the Iraq war...
and now Fox news and other rabid-right media outlets have once again taken to whipping on Jackson...
-LRB-like any sane people really care about what the hell MJ is doing any more.-RRB-
A signs of another impending misadventure in the mideast ?
And what's with Uri Geller's links to MJ ?
Anyone else smell a whiff of that whole Prophet Yahweh sideshow from awhile back ? trivial, but here's stargods ' comprehensive analysis of jacko :
regarding the JW reference.
I do n't think we need see a plot in every wood pile.
The JW considers itself THE kingdom of God on earth.
-LRB-' Kindom Hall '-RRB-
So it is only to be expected that they do not see a reason to run to and report everything to the government.
The same goes for the Roman Catholic Church.
But the RCC has had a widespread problem with this regard, doubltlessly because their policydoctrine of a celibate priesthood simply attracts these deviants.
I doubt any such problem exist on the same proportionate scale in the JW heirarchy.
Besides that, ca n't you see the embedded mind control in that article, as well as all general media output.
The Message Is : `` Big Brother must be informed !
Only Big Brother can manage society ! ''
See, it's the Hegelian dialectic at work.
Eveyone needs to sharpen their awareness of this shit.
As long as Big Brother is the answer for everything, Big Brother will BE everything.
-LRB-If people do n't want their kids pederastized, but yet they entrust them to ' guys in gowns ' I just wonder what the hell are they thinking anyway ?-RRB-
I 'd watch the Peter Pan speculations, unless you know what versions you are discussing and can differentiate between them accurately.
Some of the assumptions I 've seen-LRB-such as a couple made by Tim Boucher and Fantastic Planet in last year's postings linked here-RRB-may have looked like they worked to support their thesis, but in actuality have either a tenuous or no connection to the core Peter Pan mythos.
Do n't make up things like Peter abducting children that you ca n't substantiate.
Peter Pan was a work in progress for JM Barrie, who kept tinkering with it over the years.
To understand what it actually means to Michael Jackson and what you might speculate he is enacting, you have to know where on the continuum of Peter Pans his internalized Peter-LRB-no, not THAT kind of peter-RRB-lies.
Novel, play ?
Musical, cartoon ?
Shadow of a shadow of a remembered story ?
In one of the oldest versions, Peter Pan in Kensington Gardens-LRB-extracted from The Little White Bird-RRB-, is only a week old.
He escaped from his home when he was seven days old because he remembered how he could fly when he was a bird before he was a human,
and that wildness is still in him, as it is with all children.
Barrie's only cryptic instructions on character development to Nina Boucicault, the first actress to play Peter, was that she was to remember that Peter is a bird, and is one day old.
In Kensington Gardens he watches out for children who have fallen un-noticed out of their perambulators.
If a bad fairy finds them, or they perish from the cold an dark overnight in the park, Peter digs them graves and makes them headstones.
In Peter and Wendy, the Lost Boys are the ones who fall out of their perambulators when their nurse is not looking.
If they are not claimed in seven days, `` they are sent far away to the Neverland to defray expenses. ''
A far cry from the stealing of children.
Peter and the Lost Boys crave a mother to tell them stories.
It's ironic that while their own lives are far more exotic than the fairy tales Wendy tells, it's those fictions that they want, told by a mother.
Barrie says quite explicitly in Peter and Wendy that it is Wendy who does the tempting to keep Peter with her, not the other way around.
It is she who asks if Michael and John could come too.
If those of you with the abduction theory would like to give specific quotes and information on where it is shown that Peter abducted the children, please do.
But I think you are making it up from a version that does n't exist in reality, or that ca n't be tied to Michael Jackson.
We do n't gain better understanding of the inner workings of Michael Jackson by distorting the material on which we purportedly base our theories.
Jeff-I just have to say that I love the Rigorous Intuition Live365 channel.
I 've been listening to it to the last couple of days and just bought Dylan's ' Oh Mercy '.
How does the copyright thing work on a Live365 stream ?
Avalon, can you recommend a good work of commentary and analysis on JM Barrie's works ?
-Sepka the Space Weasel
Was Michael Jackson influenced by Bob Fosse's `` Snake in the grass '' character from the 1974 movie The Little Prince ?
Has anyone else seen this scene ?
Bob Fosse's snake looks and moves would be imitated-LRB-and made more popular-RRB-years later by the King of Pop, Michael Jackson.
View the video here : http:youtube.comwatch?v=L8mJsgPj1iU
About the JW thing, I work with a couple of them-LRB-BTW, some of the most respectable people I know.
Which is why I decided to ask...-RRB-,
and I had a chance to ask them about MJ and the child abuse, if they knew anything.
About MJ they said, he is definately not a JW, despite what he says.
Provocative lyrics and grabbing ones crotch in public, does n't fit with their defination of ' Christian '.
They said all they knew was that his mother-LRB-who apparently is still a member-RRB-took him to their church as a kid.
The father apparently had little or no involvement at all.
As for the child abuse, I have to agree with the post above, you can find abuse and ' sick ' individuals in ANY organization,
but you have too look at the proportion to the rest of society.
One of my friends is an ' elder '-LRB-soething like a ' local church leader '-RRB-,
but he also said their instructions say that if they hear of any abuse they are to follow local laws, which usually requires them to inform the police ASAP.
And if the abuse is at all serious to report it to the police regardless.
Though i do n't agree with all of their beliefs, I know these guys well enough to call them friends.
So in their respect, after reading some of the other comments, I decided to listen to their side before passing judgement.
We should ALL be careful not to pass judgement on ENTIRE groups of people based on the apparent actions of a few.
That is what Hitler tried to do.
With thiking like that, even if we got rid of the evil elite, a new set of ' evil elite ' would rise again in their place.
That seems to be the nature of man, though.
We have all got to do what we can without needlessly attacking the innocent.
Remember, group hatred only plays into their hands, be it racial, religious, or class.
Sepka, the two reference books I have on Peter Pan are : Fifty Years of Peter Pan, Roger Lancelyn Green, pub. by Peter Davies, London, 1954.
It's pretty scarce at this point, though you might be able to find a copy to read through inter-library loan.
The Peter Pan Chronicles, Bruce K. Hanson, Birch Lane Press, NY, 1993
I have n't really delved into Barrie's psyche from the biographical end, it's Peter and Wendy as an extraordinary piece of writing that has always fascinated me.
... and if you listen to `` My Way '' by sinatra, backwards, the real answer will be revealed.
http:stargods.orgMasonicMichaelJackson.htm
Uri Geller was one of MJ's handlers apparently.