our most epic road trips
writing about the black canyon left me thinking of other ' epic ' climbing road trips i 've actually survived.
and this, of course, brought back memories that made me suddenly laugh out loud in inappropriate places.
first among them while standing in line at some typically dull so-cal caffeine-o-torium waiting to beg for my morning fix :
i suddenly started laughing so hard i was like snorting out minor body parts through my nose.
suffice to say that all the local Rotarians and VFW heroes so desperate as to have voluntarily rocketed down to their local strip mall before dawn backed away from me hard, then stared at me like i had suddenly dropped my pants and started, er, ' amusing myself ' in a public place.
-LRB-i know that specific look because i once...
um, never mind-RRB-
so anyway, it dawned on me as all those oh-so-serious professionals back peddled away from me, i bet that there are oodles of absolute pant-wetter road trip stories lingering out there among my brothers and sisters on the. wreck ripe just ripe for the picking--
if only they were inspired to show and tell all.
~~~
so i ask you, what was your most epic road trip ?
do tell...
~~~
i chose the word `` epic '' with some care.
for what we 're looking for here is not necessarily your best road trip ever
-LRB-ie, `` so we met up just after work and got there early,
then we climbed everything on our wish list on our first try, then drove home without incident... ''--
good for you, but hardly worth writing, or reading.
at the other extreme, your worst road trip ever would hardly warrant a recap,
-LRB-ie, `` `` my prom date called and dumped me,
then the other two clowns finally showed up hammered and four hours late.
and 10 minutes out of town, we blew a head gasket... ''--
this also hardly worth writing, or reading.
we 're looking for epic,
the best story you ever stumbled through and survived.
something with drunken rodeo clowns, the ' professional lady ' named Larry you met in the overnight lot at that truck stop, angry state troopers, blood everywhere,...
you know, that kind of thing.
do, pray, tell all.
i promise to only laugh at the punch lines.
and i promise to fess up eventually and tell of at least one such epic i survived--
that is once you big kids have me laughing so hard i forget about all those ancient blood oaths i swore never to say a word...
canis fidelus est,
^,,^
~~~~~~~~~~~~ OB:OtrPplQuoteWad Follows ~~~~~~~~~~
`` If you never did, you should,
these things are fun, and fun is good. ''
-Dr. Seuss, `` One Fish, Two Fish, Red Fish, Blue Fish ''
~~~~~~~~~~~~ OB:OtrPplQuoteWad Ends ~~~~~~~~~~~~~
well... it began with blowing out a tire but then drifted into I-might-tell-you-one-day territory... but ended with driving back from Newhalem to Seattle with me holding my breath to lighten the load on the replacement tire, an exercise deriving from a state of mind which helps to keep one awake.
There was also a time when I agreed to atomic mouse's suggestion to follow a watercourse near Sabie downhill one afternoon.
It was him, me, 'Nita, and my 8 year old daughter and 10 year old son.
Down and down we went wading through the sparkling water, first broad and shallow then narrow with deep pools.
I'm certain that neither a.m. or myself will ever lose the sharp frozen second as 'Nita put her head under water and then threw it back with her long hair and an arc of water saying youth and grace in perfect agreement.
And sexy.
Then more descent, sometimes through the jungle on either side to bypass falls.
Now it was getting dark.
It was cold.
Sometimes the stream bottom dropped away and we fell in over our heads.
There was whimpering from all except 'Nita, our rock of unshakable womanly determination.
Just as the last light faded we made it to the place where a trail left the water and led back to the car now a couple hundred meters above us.
Only a.m. had not foreseen the chance that the escape he used the last time could have become overgrown with brambles.
He was sent off into the dark to find another way, which he did,
and although at times one of us had to do a step of 5th class and then reach back for the children standing on the shoulders of the other, we made the all-important deadline of finding an open restaurant before 9 pm.
'Nita was composed and lovely in the candlelight,
the children were glad to be alive,
a.m. spun his tales,
and I put off tick removal until morning.
That was the end to a day which had offered many other adventures, the scariest for me being a swim in a stream-LRB-a different stream-RRB-to rinse off the red mud of a cave.
Scary because I had doubts about reassurances of safety issuing from a companion who admitted to several bouts with bilharzia and tick fever.
After reading dogboy's Black Canyon post I had the same thought he did ; that there must be other such stories.
I 've already told most of mine.
However, after watching Dr. Nigel Spivey tell us How Art Made the World-LRB-''It is n't every day you walk around with a 16-LRB-or 60 ?-RRB-million dollar piece of limestone in your hand. ''-RRB-I learn that I 've re-discovered a 40,000 year-old trick of story-telling.
Use a soundtrack.
So in a recurring offer, to anyone who provides a mailing address, I will send a set of QuickTime slide shows that are guaranteed to make you laugh, whether with me or at me.
Just please use decent sound, something with sub-woofer if possible.
Andy Cairns
So nice seeing an experience from another perspective, thanks Andy.
That was some time ago
but i'm glad to see that it has 'nt blunted your memory of the day.
I do however have the disconcerting feeling that you read my diary though.
I quite think the blouberg trip we went on deserving of epic status.
-LRB-Strange thing that ; have you ever noticed how some times it's more like the trip going on you ?-RRB-
like the trip going on you ?-RRB-
like the trip going on you ?-RRB-
The scale of the adventure that awaited us must have been evident to you as we started out on the trip, since you took 2 beacon sparkles as emergency rations, instead of just 1.
Still ; the view from the top was all the better for the road we chose-LRB-or guessed-RRB-to get there.
Atomic Mouse
brothers cairns and mouse, in the same time zone at the same time, ah the very thought of just that absolutely screams epic.
having been more than once strung out 30+ feet above some rusty spinner of a paleo bolt-ette in the calanques, way way over my head and doing my bad elvis impersonation, i can easily imagine a truly priceless handful of limestone.
hell, even just a tiny little crimper's worth.
yeeesh...
having said that, i saw that said same Dr. Spivey piece on PBS--a while ago at some no-tell-LRB-'' Big Earl's Stop-N-Flop '', if memory serves-RRB-
the tv was chained to the wall,
and i assure you there was no remote.
that and the sheets were the consistency of waxed paper.
after i wokesobered up, i found this one ruby red stiletto heeled slipper that was big even on me.
my first thought was `` cool, i wonder if i can find the other one. ''
moments later my second thought was `` oooch, i think need to shower immediately, then touch nothing... ''
well, at least the price was right.
for the guy behind the-LRB-bullet proof glass--big earl himself ?-RRB-at first said ' 50 bucks an hour. '
then i said ' um, how much for all night ? '
at which he looked at me really funny and said ' er, fifty bucks '.
and i said ' well--can i see the room first ?
at which he looked at me really really funny and said ' ok, how 'bout 18 bucks. '
at which i said ' deal ! '
then i said ' er, i assume you want cash '
to which he said ' D' YAH THINK !? '
you laugh, but when was the last time you rented a no-tell room for less than 20 bucks-LRB-that's a night--not an hour, lord slime-RRB-
that or found a free size 12-LRB-mens ', EE wide-RRB-ruby red slipper ?
that or had some drunken squid who just happened to also have a key to your room suddenly crash in in the middle of the night, flip the mattress over-LRB-with you on it--well, suddenly not on it-RRB-, then calmly scoop up the revealed colt '45 and say `` oh, i'm sorry to wake you, you want a beer ? ''
well i rest my case.
or, as warren harding once said : `` At either end of the social spectrum, there lies a leisure class. ''
ok, i 've since been told it is properly attributed to eric beck.
but i met harding once, late in his life-LRB-though neither of us dreamed that at the time-RRB-by an ' unauthorized ' campfire under cloud's rest.
and he said just that to me.
and if there was ever anyone who would understand that line, it was harding.
or at least the harding i met.
before that night, i had taken my pals ' word for it and believed i was entirely nuts and a really good climber.
after that night, i realized i was n't all that especially nuts, nor was i all that especially much of a climber.
warren was magically, well, different.
trust me on this, if nothing else.
~~~
so where was i...
oh yeah, Dr. Spivey.
and neanderthals.
-LRB-and warren harding-RRB-
neanderthals are dear to me, for they are surely my tribe
-LRB-if you 'd ever been to a wedding within my clan down at the elk's lodge, you 'd know-RRB-.
i 've read a lot about them, one of my favorite repasts.
now most of our subspecies assume that just because we happened to eek past them in Darwin's sieve, they were dopes.
ah but not so--
just look at the archeology.
for big science has found burials surrounded by literally pounds of pollen.
as in flowers, piles of them.
the fact that there was any burial at, to my mind, speaks volumes of them.
add the flowers, and well, to my mind, that's poetry.
oh if only they had a written language--
well, one that we can find.
big science has also found burials of neanderthal elders-LRB-ie, like 50+-a near miracle then, albeit it no more than late adolescence now-RRB---who had demonstrably been brutally hobbled since early childhood.
like broken hips, femurs, even-LRB-in one case-RRB-a snapped spine--all trauma endured as children as now easily proved given ' modern ' techniques.
and yet they survived another 40 years to be buried in mounds of flowers.
how did that happen ?
or more to the point, why ?
we call them ' cavemen ' and relinquish them to ape status.
why ?
of late i 've come to ask if i 'd rather be surrounded by neanderthals or the graduating class of the stanford mba program.
the answer comes surprisingly easy.
~~~
um right, ok, what else.
clearly The Gods read my last post and were obviously inspired to offer still more inspiration for reflection on the epic road trip front-LRB-nudge nudge-RRB-via the morning news.
first They offered word of astronut Lisa Nowak's epic road trip from houston-LRB-Mission Control even, oh purrfect, well done Zeus-RRB-to Orlando.
i personally nominate Nowak for. wreck road trip points in both the technique and packing list categories.
the former for dreaming up an idea sure to revolutionize road trips--wearing a diaper to avoid the need for pit stops and hence shave precious seconds off travel time.
genius !
why did n't i think of that ?
i for one am off to bobmart for a carton of Depends.
sure hope i get there before all the frustrated LA commuters buy up all the national inventory.
as for Nowak's packing list, according to CNN it included : a wig, sunglasses, a trench coat, several large plastic garbage bags, a half dozen latex gloves, MapQuest directions, `` diapers Nowak said she wore to reduce stops along the highway '', a wad of undelivered love letters, and oh yeah, about $ 600 in cash
imagine all the fun one could have with all that stuff.
beats even the contents of the `` Plan R Survival Kit '' Slim Pickins ' inventories in Dr. Stranglove.
suffice to say all of the above are now on my bobmart shopping list.
it's the rubber tubing part that i suspect is really giving the woman Nowak `` just wanted to talk to '' a whopping case of the heebie geebies.
`` Hell hath no fury... ''
~~~
the morning news also included mention of the passing of Frankie Lane, the man who gave us what is certainly the best road trip tune ever--`` Rawhide ! ''
i remember while howling back from a long weekend in Squamish, after listening to the mighty original a few times with all the windows down-LRB-this in order to invoke a much needed second wind at about 3am on I-RRB-i crooned a variation on this deathless standard to inspire my then sweetheart-LRB-and still dear pal-RRB-who was cramming for an organic chem final
-LRB-she had carried her notes with her all weekend, even had her head buried in them while belaying me on Grand Wall.
a real confidence builder to look down from the shaky crux and see that.
ah yeeesh-RRB-
'' Bondin' bondin' bondin' keep that carbon bondin' FORMALDEHYDE !!!!-LRB-& etc-RRB-''
my beloved abby was, oddly, not amused.
she loudly invoked the wrath of The Gods-LRB-see above-RRB-down upon my pointy little head.
and, remarkably, she got it.
for seconds later there was this tuly blinding flash as lightning hit an unlucky tree just a few hundred in front of us and off on the side of the road.
and the thunderous crash that followed shook us into the adjoining lane.
that and no more than a minute later, as i attempted to slither between two of those big open stake trucks they use to haul live cattle, there was yet another mighty blast of lightning close by.
this apparently caused a whole lot of tightly packed cows to suddenly and simultaneously group-shit themselves, as we were instantly enveloped in the mother of all shit storms.
literally.
it was so thick my windshield wipers just stopped.
it got suddenly pitch black inside the car as every inch of glass was buried in cow shit.
this at, um, 12 hours divided by two, times five, plus about 65 equals, um, something like 95 mph.
caught tight between two tractor trailers howling-LRB-bleating ?-RRB-down some steep pass somewhere in southern oregon.
suffice to say i nearly shit myself as well.
for i could do nothing but take my foot off the gas, aim kinda straight, and start chanting from the tibetan book of the dead.
abby, always the cool head, rolled down her window-LRB-and was immediately rewarded with a lapful of still warm poop-RRB-, allowing me to slither over onto the shoulder of the road in an almost controlled manner.
there we used a snow scraper, all was left in our water bottles-LRB-not much-for who would have anticipated _that_-RRB-, a big unopened jug of gatorade, and a bottle of nondescript chardonnay to clear just enough of a porthole in the mighty poop wad on the windshield to allow us to actually find, then limp into, ashland.
there we sat at this dark gas station with a drive through car wash waiting for it to open.
abby again immersed in her org chem book, seemingly nonplussed, me thwapping my head against the steering wheel chanting `` this is n't happening... ''
when the guy-LRB-the owner, it turned out-RRB-arrived to open the gas station, he took one look at our cow pie with wheels and said `` what the fook ? ''
then he noticed we were parked at the mouth of his drive through car wash and said `` there's no _way_ i'm gon na let you use my car wash ! ''
though in the end he proved not to be a complete turd--as he gave us detailed directions to his competitor's coin operated self serveself spray car wash on the other side of town.
that and broke our remaining 40 bucks of cash into a half ton of quarters.
and we used every last quarter, for panicked cow cow-poop is like epoxy--if you did n't already know that...
~~~
sure, you 're all
...
read more >>
Blouberg was epic on my scale, involving as it did a King, a big snake, Germans and a policeman disappearing on the mountain, advice on how to kill a python, and bears some relevance to the recent thread on getting lost
-LRB-do you think Hal should add some advice in his book Bringing Yourself Back Alive about maps provided by Rupert ?-RRB-
, oh, yeah, and the guy looking for his cow with a hatchet, but the epic status was compromised when we were descending the mountain and met the schoolgirls coming up it on their way home.
I do n't think any part of that trip translates well to North American experiences, except for the thunderstorm coming on just as we were near a cave.
But the real assignment was on road trips. ^,,^ would probably find any trip you ever made in The Slut to be of interest.
Andy Cairns
And that was when you were finally a peace with the decision to not buy a convertable, was n't it ?
-s-
January 1966.
In Nigeria a civil war was going on.
I was a correspondent covering the war.
On a cloudy day I left Lagos.
I was driving along a road where they say no white man can come back alive. I was driving to see if a white man could, because I had to experience everything for myself.
I know that a man shudders in the forest when he passes close to a lion.
I got close to a lion so that I would know how it feels.
I had to do it myself because I knew that no one could describe it to me.
And I can not describe it myself.
Nor can I describe a night in the Sahara.
The stars over the Sahara are enormous.
They sway above the sand like great chandeliers.
The light of those stars is green.
Night in the Sahara is as green as a Mazowsze* meadow.
I drove up a hill
and when I got to the crest I could see the first flaming roadblock down below.
Burning logs blocked the road.
I slowed down and then stopped ;
it would have been impossible to have carried on.
I could see a dozen or so young people.
Some had shotguns,
some were holding knives
and the rest were armed with machetes.
They were dressed alike in blue shirts with white sleeves, the colours of the opposition, of the UPGA.
They wore black and white caps with the letters UPGA.
They had pictures of Chief Awolowo pinned to their shirts.
Chief Awolowo was the leader of the opposition, the idol of the party.
They must have been smoking hashish because their eyes were mad
and they did not look fully conscious.
They were soaked in sweat, seemed possessed, frenzied.
They descended on me and pulled me out of the car.
I could hear them shouting ' UPGA ! UPGA ! '
On this road UPGA ruled.
UPGA held me in its sway.
I could feel three knife points against my back
and I saw several machetes aimed at my head.
Two activists stood a few steps away, pointing their guns at me in case I tried to get away.
My African experience had taught me that the worst thing to do in such situations is to betray your despair.
The most important thing was keeping still.
Keeping still takes practice and willpower, because everything inside screams that you should run for it or jump the other guy.
But they are always in groups and that means certain death.
I had to cover all my weaknesses, hide them somewhere very deep within myself.
This was Africa,
I was in Africa.
They did not know that I was not their enemy.
They knew that I was white,
and the only white they had known was the colonizer, who abased them.
The ones standing in the road wanted cash.
They wanted me to join the party, to become a member of UPGA and to pay for it.
I gave them five shillings.
That was too little, because somebody hit me on the back of the head.
I felt pain in my skull.
In a moment there was another blow.
After the third blow I felt an enormous tiredness.
I was fatigued and sleepy ;
I asked how much they wanted.
They wanted five pounds.
Everything in Africa was getting more expensive.
In the Congo soldiers were accepting people into the party for one pack of cigarettes and one blow with a rifle butt.
But here I had already got it a couple of times
and I was still supposed to pay five pounds.
I must have hesitated because the boss shouted to the activists, ' Burn the car ! '
and that car, the Peugeot that had been carrying me around Africa, was not mine.
It belonged to the Polish state.
One of them splashed gasoline on the Peugeot.
I understood that the discussion had ended and I had no way out.
I gave them the five pounds.
They started fighting over it.
But they allowed me to drive on.
Two boys moved the burning logs aside.
I looked around.
On both sides of the road there was a village and the village crowd had been watching the action.
The people were silent ;
somebody in the crowd was holding up a UPGA banner.
They all had photographs of Chief Awolowo pinned on their shirts.
I liked the girls best.
They were naked to the waist and had the name of the party written across their breasts : UP on the right breast, and GA on the left one.
I started off.
I could not turn back ;
they allowed me only to go forward.
So I kept driving through a country at war, a cloud of dust behind me.
The landscape was beautiful here, all vivid colours,
Africa the way I like it.
Quiet, empty-every now and then a bird taking flight in the path of the car.
Now I knew the price :
UPGA had demanded five pounds of me.
I had less than five pounds left, and fifty kilometres to go.
I passed a burning village and then an emptying village, people fleeing into the bush.
Two goats grazed by the roadside and smoke hung above the road.
Beyond the village there was another burning roadblock.
Activists in UPGA uniforms, knives in their hands, were kicking a driver who did not want to pay his membership fee.
Nearby stood a bloody, beaten man-
he had n't been able to come up with the dues, either.
Everything looked like the first roadblock.
At this one, though, I had n't even managed to announce my desire to join UPGA before I received a pair of hooks to the midsection and had my shirt torn.
They turned my pockets out and took all my money.
I was waiting for them to set me on fire, because UPGA was burning many people alive.
I had seen the burnt corpses.
The boss at this roadblock popped me one in the face
and I felt a warm sweetness in my mouth.
Then he poured benzene on me,
because here they burn people in benzene :
it guarantees complete incineration.
I felt an animal fear, a fear that struck me with paralysis ;
I stood rooted to the ground, as if I was buried up to the neck.
I could feel the sweat flowing over me,
but under my skin I was as cold as if standing naked in sub-zero frost.
I wanted to live, but life was abandoning me.
I wanted to live, but I did not know how to defend my life.
My life was going to end in inhuman torment.
My life was going to go out in flames.
The boss of the operation stuffed my money into his pocket and shouted at me, blasting me with his beery breath : ' Power !
UPGA must get power !
We want power !
UPGA is power ! '
He was shaking, swept up in the passion of power ;
he was mad on power ;
the very word ' power ' sent him into ecstasy, into the highest rapture.
His face was flooding sweat,
the veins on his forehead were bulging
and his eyes were shot with blood and madness.
He was happy
and he began to laugh in joy.
They all started laughing.
That laughter saved me.
They ordered me to drive on.
About four kilometres down the road the third roadblock was burning.
The road was straight
and I could see the smoke a long way off,
and then I saw the fire and the activists.
I could not turn back.
There were two barriers behind me.
I could only go forward.
I was trapped, falling out of one ambush into another.
But now I was out of money for ransom,
and I knew that if I did n't pay up they would burn the car.
Above all, I did n't want another beating.
I had been whipped, my shirt was in tatters
and I reeked of benzene.
There was only one way out : to run the roadblock.
It was risky because I might wreck the car or it might catch fire.
But I had no choice.
I floored it.
The roadblock was a kilometre ahead.
The speedometer needle jumped : 110, 120, 140.
The car shimmied
and I gripped the wheel more tightly.
I leaned on the horn.
When I was right on top of it I could see that the bonfire stretched all the way across the road.
The activists were waving their knives for me to stop.
I saw that two of them were winding up to throw bottles of gasoline at the car
and for a second I thought, so, this is the end,
this is the end,
but there was no turning back.
There was no turning...
I smashed into the fire,
the car jumped,
there was a hammering against the belly pan,
sparks showered over the windshield.
And suddenly-the roadblock, the fire and the shouting were behind me.
The bottles had missed.
Hounded by terror I drove another kilometre
and then I stopped to make sure the car was n't on fire.
It was n't on fire.
I was all wet.
All my strength had left me ;
I was incapable of fighting ;
I was wide open, defenceless.
I sat down on the sand and felt sick to my stomach.
Everything around me was alien.
An alien sky and alien trees. Alien hills and manioc fields.
parts of The Burning Roadblocks-LSB-plan for a book that could have ended right here-RSB-in The Soccer War, by Ryszard ski, Alfred A. Knopf, 1991
http:www.pbase.comjolkaimage53574802