As a woman who sees herself as belonging to a conservative society, I have lived for many years of my life in ignorance of this world...
My knowledge about male interests and their level of thinking and thought was limited to " what I saw " from my male relatives... a small number I compared a whole world to...
I began to read and think... and found that the circle was wider than I had thought...
My reading broadened... and as it did, so did my wonder !
The relationship between men and women has never, in my opinion, been one of conflict... also in comparison to my little world.
We might have a few lighthearted clashes...
But I never thought there would be people on this earth who would embrace these ideas as belief !
I have read a lot about the marginalization of women... their degradation... their undervaluing... by Arabs and foreigners... by Muslims and disbelievers... by the ancients and contemporary people.
Such talk would be met with anger and counter-attacks by some women... by evasion and disregard by some... and submission and defeat by others.
I have read a lot of proverbs that belittle women...
But I have never read a proverb by a woman making fun of men... how sensible women are ! :-LRB-
What is even nicer is that I did not find an offensive proverb about women by people whose intellect, knowledge, ideas and religion I value !
And if something like that came out of one of them at some moment... they would quickly express regret and apologize !
We have lived for many years hearing, seeing and reading comparisons between men and women...
It has come to be a received fact for some...
Others dare to act upon some legal proofs to confirm men's superiority over women in every aspect... without exception ! Until we almost started to believe this.
This was how it was years ago... until the worldwide web-LRB-internet-RRB-came !
I have navigated the depths of this sea for seven years.
And I still do... dropping my anchor one day and raising it another. Facing clear, calm days... and facing storms and hurricanes.