In spite of the crimes and atrocities that the United States is committing under the leadership of Bush, the number one terrorist in the world and his gang of Zionists, this hoodlum continues to insist that the world has become safer after all this destruction and killing of Muslims and the innocent everywhere.
It is obvious from reading about all these events that we find that the American pirate is looking for an exit from these successive defeats and from the blows that assail them from all directions.
The American giant and mighty colossus has become a frightened mouse thanks to the Islamic resistance in Afghanistan and Iraq, and through the cheap and superficial settlement of the Palestinian question with the participation of Abu Mazen Mirza and the Zionist entity in exchange for a calendar of promises that aim ultimately at the repression of the Palestinian resistance.
That is why Condoleezza Rice's visit to Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the countries of the region comes at this time.
The carrier of firewood comes.
On her agenda is a set of proposals and directives supported by Israel, intended to offer some concessions, the most important of which is to choke and besiege the resistance in order to make the Zionist project, the so-called New or Greater Middle East, succeed, particularly after the American-Israeli fears resulting from the Israeli defeat in the latest war in Lebanon, and the rise in the stardom of the resistance which has become a popular heritage after we swallowed cups of humiliation and shame from America.
Thanks to this resistance, the balance of power has changed.
The birth of the New Middle East has faltered, and died before it was born with the mounting defeats in Afghanistan, Iraq, Lebanon and Somalia, and after that in Sudan and Iran, God willing.
Similarly, it is no accident that Rice's visit to the region is timed to coincide with Egypt's undertaking to convince the Sudanese government to accept the deployment of international forces in Darfur.
Matchstick.