He-LRB-Nasrallah-RRB-can raise his voice with curses, abuse and selected insults and no-one can keep up with him.
He says something and its opposite at the same time.
He excels in raising suspicions against his opponents and fabricating rumors to discredit them yet at the same time he states that he rejects any defamation of a Lebanese personality.
-LRB-..-RRB-
He has refused the advice of friends and brothers and any intervention, by which he means Arab countries, and he is the one who receives huge funds and weapons from Iran, but does not consider this interference in Lebanese affairs.
He is the one who stood on March 8th, just a few days after Prime Minister Hariri was martyred, to declare his loyalty to Syria which left Lebanon, carrying with it the accusation of assassinating the martyred president.
-LRB-..-RRB-
He alone decides to undertake momentous decisions such as decisions of war and peace.
He engaged in the kidnap of two Israelis at a very bad time, at the height of the summer season, and was also responsible for Lebanon being destroyed economically.
He orders Shiite ministers to resign in order to topple the government and threatens to appoint a new government as if he were the one ruler of Lebanon.
So where is the partnership ?
Hizbollah's secretary-general accuses some elements of March 14th of being in contact with the Americans to prolong the war against Hizbollah.
If his intelligence has reached such a degree of supremacy, why does he not disclose to us who assassinated Prime Minister Hariri, may God have mercy on him ?
-LRB-..-RRB-
Mr. Hassan Nasrallah has become the one who hands out certificates for patriotism, treason, cleanliness and filth.
And it is he who decides who is qualified to hold the premiership and who is not ; what a unique and strange personality this person is !
He asked for a judicial panel to be set up to look into what he has been accused of.
We now insist on an Arab-Lebanese judicial panel being set up to try him and hold him accountable for the many mistakes he has committed against us.