Our banks used to be and still are the most profitable in the world.
Because the people are Muslims and do not accept interest from their bank accounts, this interest goes to the banks.
After I read some bank publications about its outrageous profits in the billions of dollars, mostly from loans with exorbitant interest rates with which they controlled the citizens ' salaries for many years to come, I am prompted to ask : Have you ever seen a charitable hospital for the citizens built by one of these banks ?
Have you seen a road or a street or a bridge or a dam built at the expense of a bank ?
Have you seen a school or a university built at the expense of a bank ?
Have you seen a mass marriage ceremony at the expense of a bank ?
Have you seen an interest-free loan to help a young man get married, or study, or work coming from a bank ?
Have you heard about treatment of a citizen at the expense of a bank ?
Have you heard about awareness programs against corruption and drugs, support for the Ministry of Interior, and donations to eliminate them ?
All we have seen from the exploiters of the people is-LRB-Jewish interest loans-RRB and control of citizens ' salaries for many years to come.
We have heard nothing about their donations except for-LRB-a mosque and a facility to wash the dead-RRB-donated by-LRB-al-Rajihi-RRB-out of the thousands of millions that he possesses in most cities.
We say, " May God reward him. "
He is the best of the worst when it comes to donations.
But mosques are everywhere and there is no shortage.
The state has been and still is building mosques, but the nation needs to build hospitals, and to donate medicines and equipment, such as dialysis and heart equipment.
The nation needs to build universities and schools, construct roads, help the unemployed, widows, orphans, and divorcees, rehabilitate and assist the handicapped, and eliminate unemployment, spinsterhood, drugs and corruption.
You owners of banks, may God take away his blessings from you...
How much have you profited and consumed from this nation ?
How often have you been ungrateful, criticized, done injustice, and afflicted misery on this nation and its people ?