Four years ago, a Swiss university colleague invited me to give a presentationlecture on Iraq...
My colleague had been asked by an organization concerned with handicapped younth to prepare a cultural, entertaining, and educational program for this kind of audience...
She had the idea of presenting fifteen countries as a representative sample of the continents and cultures of the world, and that individuals from those countries would present their countries...
She asked me if I was willing to participate and present Iraq in this activity, so that she could add Iraq to the list of those countries...
and I do not miss a chance to talk about Iraq...
I accepted, but honestly, I was scared at the time in front of this kind of audience, which requires greater attention and effort from you...
Part of the program was to bring in something to taste, from the country we were representing... something to be eaten or drunk that the participants could taste, and so that the country could have tangible representation...
Without hesitation, I gave a slide presentation using " Power Point "...
and I chose, with a little hesitation, to make them Iraqi tea, Abu Al Hail tea.
The result was pleasing to the audience, who liked the taste of the Iraqi tea and the slide presentation approach...
My colleague later told me that I was the only lecturer to use a picture presentation with " Power Point " slides, and that the audience had liked that a lot...
I did not doubt the power of this program on the imagination of this kind of audience.
That is why I chose it...
but I was afraid they would not like the taste of Abu Al Hail tea, which might be from another planet...
But they liked it...
a great surprise...
This gave me joy more than their liking the " American " Power Point presentation.
I was not ready for another defeat by America and its " programs "...
I was looking for, at the very least, a draw in this symbolic confrontation...
At that time, the American siege was killing the children of Iraq, and I wanted to symbolically take revenge...
A draw was a victory for Iraq... for Abu Al Hail tea not to lose to Power Point...
Just that it did not lose... that was a victory.