Iraqi police sources said today, Monday, that a group of gunmen, whose members were wearing security forces uniforms and driving official cars, were able to steal one million US dollars in downtown Baghdad.
And a security source told the independent news agency Voices of Iraq that " Three new pick-up trucks, similar to the vehicles of the Iraqi security forces, driven by around 20 gunmen wearing National Guard uniforms, blocked two cars in Al-Sadoon street in downtown Baghdad. "
He added that " The two cars carried four employees of the Middle East Investment Bank who were carrying one million dollars. "
And he indicated that " The two cars were on their way to deposit the sum at the Iraqi Central Bank on Al-Rashid street in downtown Baghdad. "
And the source revealed that the gunmen " kidnapped the employees, took the million dollars, and the two cars and escaped to an unknown destination. "
And he said that " The employees work at the Al-Alawiyah branch of the Middle East Investment Bank, and it is a national bank. "
It is worth mentioning that Sadoon street, where the incident occurred, is in the center of the capital, Baghdad, and is considered one of the most important commercial streets of the city.
The street always has heavy traffic activity and has a number of Iraqi security forces checkpoints on it.
And what makes the security measures on Al-Sadoon street even more intense is Baghdad Hotel which is one of the important hotels in Baghdad.
It is located at the middle of Al-Sadoon street and has intensified security measures, such that it is surrounded by concrete walls, barbed wire, and dozens of security men.
Recently, Baghdad city witnessed two similar incidents.
One of them targeted one of the governmental Rafidain banks in Al-Amiriyah district in western Baghdad, when gunmen wearing Iraqi security forces uniforms again broke into the bank and stole the money that was there.
The second incident occurred in the high-class city of Al-Mansour last year when a group of gunmen blocked an official car carrying hundreds of thousands of dollars and seized it after killing a number of security men guarding the car.