Abbas ' decision to hold presidential and parliamentary elections is the last attempt in a series of many plots to derail the Islamists ' power-sharing in Palestinian territories.
Unfortunately, these attempts are backed by the Arabs and internationally... with local instigation, help and execution by Abbas and the Fatah movement... which has found itself outside the game... after the Palestinian people had their say in the last elections.
Abbas and his group and his supporters abroad were gambling on the timing of Hamas ' fall... through the economic and political blockade imposed on it...
But Hamas has managed to come through its first difficult days in power... and has managed to establish its presence through its continued and sincere work in spite of circumstances that were enough to bring down any other government.
As time passed, they felt that time was not on their side... and that, as time passed, Hamas and its project and proposals were becoming deeply rooted in the Palestinian and Arab political and social reality... especially after the recent successful tour by Palestinian Prime Minister Ismail Haniya to a number of Arab and Muslim countries.
Therefore, these parties have realized that the time has come to throw in the final card in a series of plots and treachery... by means of a coup against Hamas through a call for elections.
Abbas and his group are facing Hamas because it has succeeded... if it had failed or if it was expected to fail... they would have left it until it completed its lawful term... in order to abort its legitimacy... its project... and its popularity in the Palestinian arena.
Its success strips them bare and shows their real size... and brings down their proposals and projects.
Some Arabs want to topple Hamas because it is the first government formed by elected Islamists... and this threatens the mummified Arab governments... these relics that have been here for dozens of years !
In spite of their failure... and lack of popular legitimacy.