Investigation : Atif Khalil
For over 10 years, Al-Wafd has conducted a press campaign against the importation of Canadian rapeseed oil after local and international scientific reports proved its great danger to public health.
Al-Wafd succeeded in getting the cultivation and importing of rapeseed oil banned after the case in its entirety was referred to parliament, and many authorities and relevant ministries intervened to ban the importation of rapeseed oil and the cultivation of the plant from which it is extracted.
Suddenly a few months ago, an Egyptian importer managed to import rapeseed oil after it was given another name, Canola, to mislead the Egyptians-people and government-and with this new name, rapeseed oil has entered Egypt once again and is sold in our shops.
People do n't realize how dangerous it is for public health as it can actually lead to death.
What does the government want from the Egyptian people ?
It has allowed deadly Canola oil-LRB-formerly known as rapeseed-RRB-into Egypt and into its markets... does n't the government know how dangerous this Canadian oil is for the health of Egyptians... has n't it read reports by the World Health Organization and institutions working in nutrition which have refused to use Canola as food for humans ?
Does n't the government care about the pledge to safeguard the welfare of the country and its citizens ?
And Canada, the biggest oil producer, wants to export its produce of this type to Egypt but does the Egyptian government know that Canada exports this type of oil to us but imports safer oils for its people, which proves that it only uses Canola oil to show its " authority ".
After a battle of over 30 years to prevent the entry of Canola oil into Egypt, are people weakening or have they lost their consciences for a fistful of dollars splattered with the blood and lives of Egyptians ?
The importation of this oil, which causes death because it affects the liver, pancreas, kidneys, heart, lungs, nerves, skin, bones, spleen and glands, is now allowed.