Baker's Stupidity, Al Hakim's Straying, and the Ignorance of Arab Leaders.
Baker Asks for Fair Distribution of Oil Returns.
It is known that America steals oil returns, or that most of it falls in the hands of Safawis and Kurds.
How can the unjust be fair ?
And how could the thieves distribute fairly to others what they have stolen ?
Did America come to Iraq, other than to loot its oil wealth ?
Baker also asked for the dismantling of the militias.
Who can do that, when the whole American army failed to ?
Even the Iraqi police and the Iraqi army are a branch of the Badr militias, implementing Al Hakim's sectarian program to cleanse Iraq of Sunnis.
In spite of Baker's admission that Syria and Iran play a role in supporting the militias and the rebellion, and his admission that Iran considers it in its interest for the United States to submerge itself in the quagmire of Iraq, he asked for cooperation with and negotiation, as if the goal were the attempt to consolidate their efforts to eliminate resistance without affecting the general security in Iraq.
Reality highlights the contradiction between the givens Baker admits and the results he is seeking to achieve.
Baker also considers it necessary that the Iraqi government move to achieve tangible progress, forgetting-or ignoring-that it is incapable even of protecting itself, and that it is a sectarian government implementing its own agenda which is inflaming sectarian war in the country.
Baker asserted that the other security needs of the United States and the future of its army can not remain hostage to the Iraqi government's actions or its incompetence.
This is a proof that the US army should escape from Iraq, whether the situation in Iraq improves or deteriorates
Baker asked for the return of Arab Baathists and Nationalists to the national life, with the symbols of Saddam Hussein's regime.
The United States should encourage the return of qualified Iraqis, Sunnis, Shiites, nationalists, former Baathists, or Kurds, to the government.